Unbundling/Detailing of List of Exclusive and Concurrent Powers of the Federation, the State (Province) and the Local Level Provisioned in the Schedule 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 of the Constitution of Nepal

Report













Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring
Coordination Committee
Magh, 2073
(Unofficial Translation)



Content
Foreword
Part 1: Introduction
	1.1 Background
	1.2 Formation and Terms of Reference of Working Group
	1.3 Guidance of Working Group
Part 2: Procedures
	2.1 Collection, Study and Analysis of Referenced Materials
	2.2 Discussion and Interaction
	2.3 Draft Report of Working Group
	2.4 Integrated Report
Part 3: Concept and Principle Relating to Functional Analysis and Functional Assignment
	3.1 Concept
	3.2 Principle of Functional Analysis and Functional Assignment
Part 4: Detailing of the Functions of the List of the Exclusive and Concurrent Powers of the Federation, the State and the Local Level
	4.1 Unbundling/Detailing of Powers and Functions of the Federation
	4.2 Unbundling/Detailing of Powers and Functions of the State
	4.3 Unbundling/Detailing of Powers and Functions of the Local Level
Part 5: Conclusion and Suggestions
Schedules
Annex 1: List of Exclusive and Concurrent Power of the Federation, the State and the Local Level provisioned in the Constitution of Nepal
Annex 2: Formation of Committees
Annex 3: Formation of Working Groups
Annex 4: Term of Reference of Working Groups

Foreword
After the promulgation of new constitution in September 2015, through the elected Constituent Assembly, Nepal has entered into a new era of polity. The constitution epitomizes a landmark in pursuit of a well institutionalized federal system in the country. As one of its major features, the constitution accords a three tier governance system that comprises federal, provincial and local with provision of seven provinces and local level units. All three tiers of government are constitutionally assigned a number of exclusive and concurrent powers as that are stated in the Annexes 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Constitution. Recently, Nepal had restructured local bodies and converted into seven hundred forty-four local level units. 
Needless to say, implementation of the constitution falls in the top most priority of the Government of Nepal. To this end, a huge task of unbundling of the powers mentioned in the Constitution has been successfully accomplished and I am happy to note that the Government of Nepal (Cabinet) has approved it. The unbundling document allots to federal level eight hundred seventy, provincial level five hundred sixty five and local level three hundred sixty activities as their roles and responsibilities. While elaborating the list of powers, universally acclaimed principles, such as subsidiarity, economies of scale, efficiency, economic stability, social inclusion and national priority, externalities or spillover jurisdiction, accountability and viability, among others, have been largely employed.
Finally, we have made public this document for public consumption in both Nepali and English (draft). Literally, this is a milestone document regarding the federalization process in the country. I believe that this document will greatly help in the days to come for the development of overall policies, laws, systems, institutions, processes and procedure to be laid down in each tier of government. In the backdrop of recently held election of local level, this report will be helpful also for newly elected representatives, policy practitioners and other concerned stakeholders while designing/framing their policies, laws, systems, institutions, processes, procedures and managing their resources such as human, fiscal, physical and natural. Going beyond the boundary, other federal countries also can learn out of this ground-breaking work.
I take this opportunity to thank all those who gave their invaluable time to make this task possible. My special thanks goes to Mr. Chandra Kumar Ghimire, Secretary, Mr. Dilli Ram Sharma, Joint Secretary and all thematic group conveners, members, experts and other employees representing governmental and non-governmental bodies, who have actively engaged in this mission. Without their support this document never would have taken this current shape up to this mark. 
									
							           (Dr. Som Lal Subedi)								       Chief Secretary



























Part 1
Introduction
1.1 Background
The Constitution of Nepal, formulated by the representatives of the Constitutional Assembly who were elected by the people of Nepal for the first time in the history, has been implemented from the 3rd of Aswin 2072. Nepal has been transformed into a federal, inclusive, democratic republican state. The Constitution of Nepal has provisioned the main structure of the federal democratic republic of Nepal into three levels as namely the federation, the state and the local level and three levels shall exercise the power of state pursuant to this Constitution and law. The powers of the federation, states and local level have been included in the Schedule 5, 6, and 8 respectively and the concurrent powers of the Federation, and States and the Federation, States and local level have been included in the schedule 7 and 9 of the Constitution of Nepal. The description of the list of powers as provisioned by the constitution has been mentioned in the annex-1. The constituition has made the provision related to the relations between the Federation, States and the Local level shall be based on the principle of cooperation, coexistence and coordination.
Nepal has adopted the federal system instead of the unitary system of governance of policy, legal, structural, human resource management, financial and institution interrelation necessary for the implementation of the federal system and restructuring of the administration pursuant to the Constitution of Nepal. In this context, Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring Directive Committee has been formed on the convenorship of Right Honorable Prime Minister and Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring Coordination Committee has been formed on the Convenorship of Chief Secretary of the government of the Nepal. This report is prepared by completing the unbundling of the works provisioned in the Constitution of Nepal to prepare the framework of the Federation, the State and the Local level organization structure as per the decision of the Directive Committee dated 2073/5/21. This report is prepared adopting specific procedure and guidance, direct involvement, coordination, facilitation and using expertise of Chief Secretary Dr. Som Lal Subedi.

1.2 Formation of Working Group and Terms of Reference
According to the decision of the Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring Coordination Committee, five working groups were formed namely social, economic, infrastructures, security and governing arrangement/governance management, and constitutional bodies, parliament, law and others. Formation of each working group and subject related to working groups has been included in annex-2. The twelve point Terms of Reference assigned to each  working group has been mentioned in annex-3. 
1.3 Guidance for the working group
Instructions were provided to the working teams to follow the following guidelines:
The Constitution of Nepal
Action plan related to federalism implementation and restructuring
The decisions taken and directions provided by the Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring high-level Directive Committee and Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring Coordination Committee. 



	




















Part 2
Working Procedure
The procedure adopted by the working groups/task forces in order to perform the task is mentioned as following:
2.1 Collection of Reference Materials, Study and Analysis
Each working groups had collected, studied, and analyzed the sectoral policies, strategies, acts, regulations and the study reports and functional analysis of different sectors as per the assigned subject/thematic areas to the particular working team.
2.2 Discussion and Interaction
Concept and methodology related to functional analysis and division of responsibilities was done, after finalizing the formats and procedures for the same by conducting rounds of discussion and interaction with the coordinator and members of working groups, expert teams, concerned officials and members of Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring Committee. In addition, various workshops were organized participated by the Chief Secretary of the Government of Nepal and experts from different sectors, which collected and compiled important opinions, recommendation and suggestions for the preparation of relevant group report and integrated draft report.
2.3 Sectoral Draft Report
A draft report was presented to the Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring Coordination Committee prepared by each working groups regarding their sectoral functional analysis and responsibility assignment which included the report submitted by the independent thematic expert, comments and suggestions given by the commenter on the report, along with the opinions and suggestions received from the participants of the workshops on the presentation done by the coordinator of  each working groups. Furthermore, opinions and suggestions were also taken from the Chief Secretary of Government of Nepal, Dr. Somlal Subedi and concerned ministries and agencies. The working groups prepared the draft reports related to their own thematic areas by incorporating the opinions and suggestions received on their reports of functional analysis and responsibility assignment. 
2.4 Integrated Report
This integrated report on functional assignment of responsibility of the Federation, the State and the Local level has been prepared after rigorous consultation with the stakeholders on reports submitted by functional working group, incorporating suggestions and remarks of Chief Secretary Dr. Somlal Subedi, and on this basis all functional responsibility of the Federation, the State and the Local level were tied-up with the list of headings as per the annexes of the Constitution.


Part 3
Concept and Principle of Functional Analysis and Assignment of Responsibility
3.1 Concept
In the context of intergovernmental relation, the substantive types of group of activities in various scales are known as functions. Generally, this includes substantive and inherent sectors or managerial activities related to these sectors. Every activity is tied-up to comprehensive system in order to the achieve the result that would be beneficial to comprehensive system. Government involves in public affair. The function of the government is to create a conducive environment for the people to get easy access to the services and ensure legal compliance. The government is not a single actor. The responsibility of the government includes creating an environment, and providing guidance to provide the services through private sector, cooperatives or common efforts as well. The people can receive the services in easy and simple way only if they themselves are organized and are clear enough about the type of services they should take from the private, cooperative or the public sector. Mainly, the function of the government is related to the service delivery to the people or internal process (planning, budgeting, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, human resource management, research and trainings). The functions of the government can be classified according to the models/forms of the decentralization as decentralized delegation of power and devolution of power, expenditure and revenue assignment, compulsory/mandatory and optional functions, function of exclusive and concurrent rights and performable and non-performable the functions.
Genrally, the meaning of the word ‘function’ is commonly understood as the group of activities perfomed by the government, it is also understood as the ‘ subject matter’ and the major functions of the management. The functions of the management are included in the subject matter. For instance: in the subject matter of “air pollution”, other functions such as plans to tackle the air pollution, management of financial resources to control it and monitoring the ways to decrease the air pollution are also carried out. It is flexible in use of the word; ‘function’ is based on the activities and subject matter. The word, ‘function’ covers ‘sector’ as one aspect and also covers chunk of the sector. For instance, water sector can be classified as sector (water resource), sub-sector (irrigation), field level (small irrigation). 
In general, the function can be taken as the functions, duties, rights, obligations, role, responsibilities and services performed for the achievement of the re expected result, its main purpose is to develop the well-being, welfare, happiness, prosperity and better livelihood of the people.
Functional assignment is the process of assigning the public functions into different levels of the government’s responsibilities. Functional analysis and responsibility assignment is also understood as a function of an expenditure assignment or power or competency function. But there is few differences between the functional analysis responsibility assignment and the expenditure assignment. The scope of functional analysis is broader than that of the expenditure assignment. The functional analysis and responsibility assignment includes every activity (income and expenditure as well) but expenditure assignment has the risk of not including the activity that is very important but incurs less expenses.
Functional responsibility assignment answers about which function and activity should be performed by which  levels of the government and which activity should remain in the public sector. Functional analysis and  assignment is initiated considering the expectation of the people from the government. Generally, the central government agencies perform their functions of allocation, distribution and stability. The government also performs other specialized functions within these broad functions. Similarly, it has been found globally that the sub-national level governments or provincial and local level governments also have been doing the similar kind of functions of the public service. These functions can be categorized in group under social functions as social affairs, economical, public construction function, general administration and governing arrangement. 
Functional analysis and responsibility assignment is considered as the major foundation of the multilevel governance system and it affects the other themes related to intergovernmental relation. Functional analysis and responsibility assignment is exercised both in the countries adopting unitary and federal system. However, some similarities and differences can be found in the process and nature of the functional assignment exercised by these countries. The process of functional analysis and responsibility assignment is taken as the top-down approach in the countries with unitary system of the government. Whereas, the federal countries adopt the process of functional assignment as the bottom-up approach. Generally, in a federal country, powers are assigned through the constitution. Constitutional power is insured and cannot be amended immediately because of the certain procedure for the amendment of the constitutional. It has been found that, few federal countries have been practicing both model to the functional assignment. 
For a country like Nepal, which is stepping into a federal system from the unitary system, the process of functional assignment is a departure point for assigning powers to the different levels of the government. Similarly,  functional analysis and responsibility assignment is necessary to determine fiscal burden, necessary legal and organizational structure (Fund follows function and function follows organization and the size of human resources.
3.2 The Main Objective of Functional Analysis and Responsibility Assignment
The main objective of functional analysis and responsibility assignment is to ensure trust and effectiveness in service delivery, and to end the instability, confusion, and dilemma in the intergovernmental relation by clearly assigning the responsibilities clearly and support to build necessary organization and legal structures, financial and human resource management to perform the functions within their working areas.
3.3 The Principle of Functional Analysis and Responsibility Assignment
There is no single accepted principle of functional assignment to assign any specific public function to any level of government. Functional assignment can be determined based on values, historical context and other considerations. Functional assignment may change during a time interval due to changes in investment, technological constraints, and choices. Functional assignment can be applied according to the level of capacity of government or can apply step-by step rather than holistic approach, but the Constitution of Nepal has clearly provisioned the functional responsibilities of the State and the Local level.
The experts of the public administration have propounded some principles related to functional assignment as following. Based on these principles, the work to be done by the different levels of the government is determined. Sometimes, while assigning the function, these principles may not be used. In this situation, international practices and the discretionary decision of the experts may play the role. 
3.3.1 Efficiency and Subsidiarity
The principle of efficiency points out to provide the public service efficiently and effectively at low cost by satisfying the probable diverse needs and preferences of the taxpayer people. The efficiency of the public service can be increased if the benefit of service can be determined through the cost of the service.
According to the principle of subsidy, higher level government should perform only those tasks which lower level government cannot perform equally well or better. This is because the lower level of agency or local government is closer to the people, is more familiar to the needs and preferences of the taxpaying people, and is more accountable and responsible towards the people. The people themselves can effectively monitor and implement the service provided in the local level, this is why these type of work should be assigned to the local government. The central government is less familiar to the needs and preferences of the local people and due to the diverse local needs and preferences, these types of services can be provided by the local government more effectively. 
If the beneficiary area/sector is clear from the work or service and if possibility to internalize that cost and benefit at Local level, it is appropriate to assign the responsibilities of those works and services to the local level. Lower/sub-national level of the governments can provide the public service more cost-effectively than the federal government due to possibilities of more accountable, competitive and innovativeness. The functional analysis and assignment can be done with the determination that the right to take the decision always can be assigned to those who are affected by the results of the decision. These aspects/subjects are the essential elements for the implementation of federalism in Nepal.
3.3.2 Economies of Scale 
An economy of scale is understood as the benefit from the increased level of production. If more unit of a commodity or service can be produced in low cost of production and in large volume, it is said to be gained the economies of scale. While assigning the responsibilities of the public service, the producers’ economic efficiency should also be considered because producing larger volume of some public services is cost effective. Management of the textbooks and medicines can be taken as an example. It is appropriate to perform such functions by the federal government. 
3.3.3 Externalities or spillover jurisdiction
The area/location/jurisdiction that gets the benefit from the public goods or services also determines which government is appropriate to take the responsibility of delivering that goods and services. For instance, the beneficial jurisdiction of sanitary services is the local community, whereas, the air traffic control service map provide considerable benefits to the whole country. If the benefits of any goods or services cannot be limited within any geographical location, it is appropriate to take such responsibility by the higher level of government. University can be taken as a good example. The local people cannot operate an university through their tax and also the residents of other area can take benefit from that university that is why the responsibility of these types of services should be taken by the higher level of the government. 
If the benefit and cost cannot be internalized and the effect of service is even out of jurisdiction of the local level then the responsibilities of such services should remain under the State or Federal government. 
3.3.4 Equity and Inclusion
The responsibility of the government is to provide equal opportunity and try to bring out equal level of opportunity among all the people of the country with different class, ethnicity, and economic condition who are residing in various geographical region. For instance, the government can implement the social welfare activities and low cost housing programs for the people with low income. It would be appropriate if the central or federal government takes these responsibilities. This is because the necessity of the redistribution and social welfare is more in the local level and but there may be scarcity of the resources in the local level government. For such activities, the federal government can develop the policies and manage the financial resources and the responsibility of the implementation can be assigned cooperatively to the provincial and local government. This is because the local government has more information on the explicit description of the poor, and the recognition of their standard and needs.
3.3.5 Overall Economic Stability
The main function of the government is to maintain economic stability in the country. If an activity affects the whole economic stability of the country, the responsibility of such activities is appropriate to be taken by the federal government. The local government cannot give attention to the economic situation of the country and the federal government could provide the service through adopting the deficit budget, or policy of market protection or provision of easy banking system. This can affect the economic situation of the country; therefore, it would be appropriate for the federal government to discharge this responsibility and function. 
3.3.6 National Interests and Goals
The responsibility on the matter of national unity, sovereignty, national integrity, national interest, priority, and goals is of the central government. The ultimate responsibility of maintaining law and order, and happiness (amanchayan) in the country is appropriate to discharge by the central government. 
3.3.7 Accountability and Capacity
The responsibility of the activities that people can control, access, manages, monitor and mobilize the resource, should be given to the local government. For such activities, the people can make the local government more accountable because the local government is the nearest government to the people. The local level government can promote the accountability through devolution of power under its units, local community and citizen.
While allocating the responsibility, the capacity of the government should also be considered. The capacity of the federal government is more than other governments. This is because while comparing with the other governments, federal government has more skilled human resource, high technology and system and enough resources. The federal or the higher level of government should create a favorable working environment for the lower level of government and fully assist in increasing the capacity of the lower level of the government. 
3.3.8 Aspects such as policies, standards, quality, regulation, financial resources, services delivery, production and distribution of the services are more important to determine the functional analysis and assignment. The answer could be received through this functional analysis, suchlike, what, who, how and which level of the government performed the work. 
3.3.9. Cooperation, Coordination and Co-Existence
As provisioned in the Constitution of Nepal, the relationship between the Federation, the States, and Local level shall be based on the principles of cooperation, co-existence, and coordination; the functional analysis of public work is also based on these principles. Similarly, there is also tendency to assign the sub functions (which are under the functional assignment) to that government which has more comparative advantage. It is necessary to perform the functions and responsibility distributing the technology and necessary technical support mutually with each other. 
The above mentioned principles are followed as per the necessity while preparing the report.

Part-4
Allocation and Detailing/Unbundling of the Exclusive and Concurrent Powers of the Federation, States and the Local Level
4.1 Detailing/unbundling of the Federal Power (Schedule 5 of the Constitution)
List of Exclusive Powers of Federation
