Unbundling/Detailing of List of Exclusive and Concurrent
Powers of the Federation, the State (Province) and the Local
Level Provisioned in the Schedule 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 of the

Constitution of Nepal

Report

Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring
Coordination Committee
Magh, 2073

(Unofficial Translation)

Content

Foreword
Part 1: Introduction

1.1 Background

1.2 Formation and Terms of Reference of Working Group

1.3 Guidance of Working Group
Part 2: Procedures

2.1 Collection, Study and Analysis of Referenced Materials

2.2 Discussion and Interaction

2.3 Draft Report of Working Group

2.4 Integrated Report
Part 3: Concept and Principle Relating to Functional Analysis and
Functional Assignment

3.1 Concept

3.2 Principle of Functional Analysis and Functional Assignment
Part 4: Detailing of the Functions of the List of the Exclusive and
Concurrent Powers of the Federation, the State and the Local Level

4.1 Unbundling/Detailing of Powers and Functions of the Federation

4.2 Unbundling/Detailing of Powers and Functions of the State

4.3 Unbundling/Detailing of Powers and Functions of the Local Level
Part 5: Conclusion and Suggestions
Schedules

Annex 1: List of Exclusive and Concurrent Power of the

Federation, the State and the Local Level provisioned
in the Constitution of Nepal
Annex 2: Formation of Committees
Annex 3: Formation of Working Groups

Annex 4: Term of Reference of Working Groups

Foreword

After the promulgation of new constitution in September 2015, through
the elected Constituent Assembly, Nepal has entered into a new era of
polity. The constitution epitomizes a landmark in pursuit of a well
institutionalized federal system in the country. As one of its major features,
the constitution accords a three tier governance system that comprises
federal, provincial and local with provision of seven provinces and local
level units. All three tiers of government are constitutionally assigned a
number of exclusive and concurrent powers as that are stated in the
Annexes 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Constitution. Recently, Nepal had
restructured local bodies and converted into seven hundred forty-four
local level units.

Needless to say, implementation of the constitution falls in the top most
priority of the Government of Nepal. To this end, a huge task of unbundling
of the powers mentioned in the Constitution has been successfully
accomplished and | am happy to note that the Government of Nepal
(Cabinet) has approved it. The unbundling document allots to federal level
eight hundred seventy, provincial level five hundred sixty five and local
level three hundred sixty activities as their roles and responsibilities. While
elaborating the list of powers, universally acclaimed principles, such as
subsidiarity, economies of scale, efficiency, economic stability, social
inclusion and national priority, externalities or spillover jurisdiction,
accountability and viability, among others, have been largely employed.

Finally, we have made public this document for public consumption in both
Nepali and English (draft). Literally, this is a milestone document regarding
the federalization process in the country. | believe that this document will
greatly help in the days to come for the development of overall policies,
laws, systems, institutions, processes and procedure to be laid down in
each tier of government. In the backdrop of recently held election of local
level, this report will be helpful also for newly elected representatives,
policy practitioners and other concerned — stakeholders while
designing/framing their policies, laws, systems, institutions, processes,
procedures and managing their resources such as human, fiscal, physical
and natural. Going beyond the boundary, other federal countries also can
learn out of this ground-breaking work.

| take this opportunity to thank all those who gave their invaluable time to
make this task possible. My special thanks goes to Mr. Chandra Kumar
Ghimire, Secretary, Mr. Dilli Ram Sharma, Joint Secretary and all thematic
group conveners, members, experts and other employees representing
governmental and non-governmental bodies, who have actively engaged in
this mission. Without their support this document never would have taken
this current shape up to this mark.

(Dr. Som Lal Subedi)
Chief Secretary

Part 1
Introduction

1.1 Background

The Constitution of Nepal, formulated by the representatives of the Constitutional
Assembly who were elected by the people of Nepal for the first time in the history, has
been implemented from the 3“ of Aswin 2072. Nepal has been transformed into a
federal, inclusive, democratic republican state. The Constitution of Nepal has
provisioned the main structure of the federal democratic republic of Nepal into three
levels as namely the federation, the state and the local level and three levels shall
exercise the power of state pursuant to this Constitution and law. The powers of the
federation, states and local level have been included in the Schedule 5, 6, and 8
respectively and the concurrent powers of the Federation, and States and the Federation,
States and local level have been included in the schedule 7 and 9 of the Constitution of
Nepal. The description of the list of powers as provisioned by the constitution has been
mentioned in the annex-1. The constituition has made the provision related to the
relations between the Federation, States and the Local level shall be based on the
principle of cooperation, coexistence and coordination.

Nepal has adopted the federal system instead of the unitary system of governance of
policy, legal, structural, human resource management, financial and_ institution
interrelation necessary for the implementation of the federal system and restructuring of
the administration pursuant to the Constitution of Nepal. In this context, Federalism
Implementation and Administration Restructuring Directive Committee has been formed
on the convenorship of Right Honorable Prime Minister and Federalism Implementation
and Administration Restructuring Coordination Committee has been formed on the
Convenorship of Chief Secretary of the government of the Nepal. This report is prepared
by completing the unbundling of the works provisioned in the Constitution of Nepal to
prepare the framework of the Federation, the State and the Local level organization
structure as per the decision of the Directive Committee dated 2073/5/21. This report is
prepared adopting specific procedure and guidance, direct involvement, coordination,

facilitation and using expertise of Chief Secretary Dr. Som Lal Subedi.

1.2 Formation of Working Group and Terms of Reference
According to the decision of the Federalism Implementation and Administration
Restructuring Coordination Committee, five working groups were formed namely social,
economic, infrastructures, security and governing arrangement/governance management,
and constitutional bodies, parliament, law and others. Formation of each working group
and subject related to working groups has been included in annex-2. The twelve point
Terms of Reference assigned to each working group has been mentioned in annex-3.
1.3 Guidance for the working group
Instructions were provided to the working teams to follow the following guidelines:

e The Constitution of Nepal

e Action plan related to federalism implementation and restructuring

० The decisions taken and directions provided by the Federalism Implementation

and Administration Restructuring high-level Directive Committee and Federalism

Implementation and Administration Restructuring Coordination Committee.

Part 2

Working Procedure
The procedure adopted by the working groups/task forces in order to perform the task is
mentioned as following:
2.1 Collection of Reference Materials, Study and Analysis
Each working groups had collected, studied, and analyzed the sectoral policies,
strategies, acts, regulations and the study reports and functional analysis of different
sectors as per the assigned subject/thematic areas to the particular working team.
2.2 Discussion and Interaction
Concept and methodology related to functional analysis and division of responsibilities
was done, after finalizing the formats and procedures for the same by conducting rounds
of discussion and interaction with the coordinator and members of working groups,
expert teams, concerned officials and members of Federalism Implementation and
Administration Restructuring Committee. In addition, various workshops were organized
participated by the Chief Secretary of the Government of Nepal and experts from
different sectors, which collected and compiled important opinions, recommendation and
suggestions for the preparation of relevant group report and integrated draft report.
2.3 Sectoral Draft Report
A draft report was presented to the Federalism Implementation and Administration
Restructuring Coordination Committee prepared by each working groups regarding their
sectoral functional analysis and responsibility assignment which included the report
submitted by the independent thematic expert, comments and suggestions given by the
commenter on the report, along with the opinions and suggestions received from the
participants of the workshops on the presentation done by the coordinator of each
working groups. Furthermore, opinions and suggestions were also taken from the Chief
Secretary of Government of Nepal, Dr. Somlal Subedi and concerned ministries and
agencies. The working groups prepared the draft reports related to their own thematic
areas by incorporating the opinions and suggestions received on their reports of
functional analysis and responsibility assignment.
2.4 Integrated Report
This integrated report on functional assignment of responsibility of the Federation, the

State and the Local level has been prepared after rigorous consultation with the

7

stakeholders on reports submitted by functional working group, incorporating
suggestions and remarks of Chief Secretary Dr. Somlal Subedi, and on this basis all
functional responsibility of the Federation, the State and the Local level were tied-up

with the list of headings as per the annexes of the Constitution.

Part 3
Concept and Principle of Functional Analysis and Assignment of Responsibility

3.1 Concept

In the context of intergovernmental relation, the substantive types of group of activities
in various scales are known as functions. Generally, this includes substantive and
inherent sectors or managerial activities related to these sectors. Every activity is tied-up
to comprehensive system in order to the achieve the result that would be beneficial to
comprehensive system. Government involves in public affair. The function of the
government is to create a conducive environment for the people to get easy access to the
services and ensure legal compliance. The government is not a single actor. The
responsibility of the government includes creating an environment, and providing
guidance to provide the services through private sector, cooperatives or common efforts
as well. The people can receive the services in easy and simple way only if they
themselves are organized and are clear enough about the type of services they should
take from the private, cooperative or the public sector. Mainly, the function of the
government is related to the service delivery to the people or internal process (planning,
budgeting, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, human resource management,
research and trainings). The functions of the government can be classified according to
the models/forms of the decentralization as decentralized delegation of power and
devolution of power, expenditure and revenue assignment, compulsory/mandatory and
optional functions, function of exclusive and concurrent rights and performable and non-
performable the functions.

Genrally, the meaning of the word ‘function’ is commonly understood as the group of
activities perfomed by the government, it is also understood as the ‘ subject matter’ and
the major functions of the management. The functions of the management are included
in the subject matter. For instance: in the subject matter of “air pollution”, other
functions such as plans to tackle the air pollution, management of financial resources to
control it and monitoring the ways to decrease the air pollution are also carried out. It is
flexible in use of the word; ‘function’ is based on the activities and subject matter. The

word, ‘function’ covers ‘sector’ as one aspect and also covers chunk of the sector. For

8

instance, water sector can be classified as sector (water resource), sub-sector (irrigation),
field level (small irrigation).

In general, the function can be taken as the functions, duties, rights, obligations, role,
responsibilities and services performed for the achievement of the re expected result, its
main purpose is to develop the well-being, welfare, happiness, prosperity and better
livelihood of the people.

Functional assignment is the process of assigning the public functions into different
levels of the government’s responsibilities. Functional analysis and responsibility
assignment is also understood as a function of an expenditure assignment or power or
competency function. But there is few differences between the functional analysis
responsibility assignment and the expenditure assignment. The scope of functional
analysis is broader than that of the expenditure assignment. The functional analysis and
responsibility assignment includes every activity (income and expenditure as well) but
expenditure assignment has the risk of not including the activity that is very important
but incurs less expenses.

Functional responsibility assignment answers about which function and activity should
be performed by which levels of the government and which activity should remain in the
public sector. Functional analysis and assignment is initiated considering the expectation
of the people from the government. Generally, the central government agencies perform
their functions of allocation, distribution and stability. The government also performs
other specialized functions within these broad functions. Similarly, it has been found
globally that the sub-national level governments or provincial and local level
governments also have been doing the similar kind of functions of the public service.
These functions can be categorized in group under social functions as social affairs,
economical, public construction function, general administration and governing
arrangement.

Functional analysis and responsibility assignment is considered as the major foundation
of the multilevel governance system and it affects the other themes related to
intergovernmental relation. Functional analysis and responsibility assignment is
exercised both in the countries adopting unitary and federal system. However, some
similarities and differences can be found in the process and nature of the functional
assignment exercised by these countries. The process of functional analysis and
responsibility assignment is taken as the top-down approach in the countries with unitary
system of the government. Whereas, the federal countries adopt the process of functional

assignment as the bottom-up approach. Generally, in a federal country, powers are

9

assigned through the constitution. Constitutional power is insured and cannot be
amended immediately because of the certain procedure for the amendment of the
constitutional. It has been found that, few federal countries have been practicing both
model to the functional assignment.

For a country like Nepal, which is stepping into a federal system from the unitary
system, the process of functional assignment is a departure point for assigning powers to
the different levels of the government. Similarly, functional analysis and responsibility
assignment is necessary to determine fiscal burden, necessary legal and organizational
structure (Fund follows function and function follows organization and the size of human
resources.

3.2 The Main Objective of Functional Analysis and Responsibility Assignment

The main objective of functional analysis and responsibility assignment is to ensure trust
and effectiveness in service delivery, and to end the instability, confusion, and dilemma
in the intergovernmental relation by clearly assigning the responsibilities clearly and
support to build necessary organization and legal structures, financial and human
resource management to perform the functions within their working areas.

3.3 The Principle of Functional Analysis and Responsibility Assignment

There is no single accepted principle of functional assignment to assign any specific
public function to any level of government. Functional assignment can be determined
based on values, historical context and other considerations. Functional assignment may
change during a time interval due to changes in investment, technological constraints,
and choices. Functional assignment can be applied according to the level of capacity of
government or can apply step-by step rather than holistic approach, but the Constitution
of Nepal has clearly provisioned the functional responsibilities of the State and the Local
level.

The experts of the public administration have propounded some principles related to
functional assignment as following. Based on these principles, the work to be done by
the different levels of the government is determined. Sometimes, while assigning the
function, these principles may not be used. In this situation, international practices and
the discretionary decision of the experts may play the role.

3.3.1 Efficiency and Subsidiarity

The principle of efficiency points out to provide the public service efficiently and
effectively at low cost by satisfying the probable diverse needs and preferences of the
taxpayer people. The efficiency of the public service can be increased if the benefit of

service can be determined through the cost of the service.

10

According to the principle of subsidy, higher level government should perform only
those tasks which lower level government cannot perform equally well or better. This is
because the lower level of agency or local government is closer to the people, is more
familiar to the needs and preferences of the taxpaying people, and is more accountable
and responsible towards the people. The people themselves can effectively monitor and
implement the service provided in the local level, this is why these type of work should
be assigned to the local government. The central government is less familiar to the needs
and preferences of the local people and due to the diverse local needs and preferences,
these types of services can be provided by the local government more effectively.

If the beneficiary area/sector is clear from the work or service and if possibility to
internalize that cost and benefit at Local level, it is appropriate to assign the
responsibilities of those works and services to the local level. Lower/sub-national level
of the governments can provide the public service more cost-effectively than the federal
government due to possibilities of more accountable, competitive and innovativeness.
The functional analysis and assignment can be done with the determination that the right
to take the decision always can be assigned to those who are affected by the results of the
decision. These aspects/subjects are the essential elements for the implementation of
federalism in Nepal.

3.3.2 Economies of Scale

An economy of scale is understood as the benefit from the increased level of production.
If more unit of a commodity or service can be produced in low cost of production and in
large volume, it is said to be gained the economies of scale. While assigning the
responsibilities of the public service, the producers’ economic efficiency should also be
considered because producing larger volume of some public services is cost effective.
Management of the textbooks and medicines can be taken as an example. It is
appropriate to perform such functions by the federal government.

3.3.3 Externalities or spillover jurisdiction

The area/location/jurisdiction that gets the benefit from the public goods or services also
determines which government is appropriate to take the responsibility of delivering that
goods and services. For instance, the beneficial jurisdiction of sanitary services is the
local community, whereas, the air traffic control service map provide considerable
benefits to the whole country. If the benefits of any goods or services cannot be limited
within any geographical location, it is appropriate to take such responsibility by the
higher level of government. University can be taken as a good example. The local people

cannot operate an university through their tax and also the residents of other area can

11

take benefit from that university that is why the responsibility of these types of services
should be taken by the higher level of the government.

If the benefit and cost cannot be internalized and the effect of service is even out of
jurisdiction of the local level then the responsibilities of such services should remain
under the State or Federal government.

3.3.4 Equity and Inclusion

The responsibility of the government is to provide equal opportunity and try to bring out
equal level of opportunity among all the people of the country with different class,
ethnicity, and economic condition who are residing in various geographical region. For
instance, the government can implement the social welfare activities and low cost
housing programs for the people with low income. It would be appropriate if the central
or federal government takes these responsibilities. This is because the necessity of the
redistribution and social welfare is more in the local level and but there may be scarcity
of the resources in the local level government. For such activities, the federal
government can develop the policies and manage the financial resources and the
responsibility of the implementation can be assigned cooperatively to the provincial and
local government. This is because the local government has more information on the
explicit description of the poor, and the recognition of their standard and needs.

3.3.5 Overall Economic Stability

The main function of the government is to maintain economic stability in the country. If
an activity affects the whole economic stability of the country, the responsibility of such
activities is appropriate to be taken by the federal government. The local government
cannot give attention to the economic situation of the country and the federal government
could provide the service through adopting the deficit budget, or policy of market
protection or provision of easy banking system. This can affect the economic situation of
the country; therefore, it would be appropriate for the federal government to discharge
this responsibility and function.

3.3.6 National Interests and Goals

The responsibility on the matter of national unity, sovereignty, national integrity,
national interest, priority, and goals is of the central government. The ultimate
responsibility of maintaining law and order, and happiness (amanchayan) in the country
is appropriate to discharge by the central government.

3.3.7 Accountability and Capacity

The responsibility of the activities that people can control, access, manages, monitor and

mobilize the resource, should be given to the local government. For such activities, the

12

people can make the local government more accountable because the local government is
the nearest government to the people. The local level government can promote the
accountability through devolution of power under its units, local community and citizen.
While allocating the responsibility, the capacity of the government should also be
considered. The capacity of the federal government is more than other governments. This
is because while comparing with the other governments, federal government has more
skilled human resource, high technology and system and enough resources. The federal
or the higher level of government should create a favorable working environment for the
lower level of government and fully assist in increasing the capacity of the lower level of
the government.

3.3.8 Aspects such as policies, standards, quality, regulation, financial resources,
services delivery, production and distribution of the services are more important to
determine the functional analysis and assignment. The answer could be received through
this functional analysis, suchlike, what, who, how and which level of the government
performed the work.

3.3.9. Cooperation, Coordination and Co-Existence

As provisioned in the Constitution of Nepal, the relationship between the Federation, the
States, and Local level shall be based on the principles of cooperation, co-existence, and
coordination; the functional analysis of public work is also based on these principles.
Similarly, there is also tendency to assign the sub functions (which are under the
functional assignment) to that government which has more comparative advantage. It is
necessary to perform the functions and responsibility distributing the technology and
necessary technical support mutually with each other.

The above mentioned principles are followed as per the necessity while preparing the

report.

13

Part-4

Allocation and Detailing/Unbundling of the Exclusive and Concurrent Powers of

the Federation, States and the Local Level

4.1 Detailing/unbundling of the Federal Power (Schedule 5 of the Constitution)

List of Exclusive Powers of Federation

 

 

 

 

Detailing of the Matter of the List of Power

 

 

Detailing of the Exclusive Rights (Schedule-5) of the Federation

 

 

Protection of national unity and

territorial integrity

 

Policies, strategies, laws, standards,
planning, implementation and regulations
relating to the protection and promotion of
the freedom, sovereignty, territorial
integrity, independent and national unity of

Nepal.

 

Collection, analysis and utilization of
strategic information relating to external
and internal challenges and risks to
undermine the freedom, sovereignty,
territorial integrity, independent and
national unity of Nepal and protection of

national unity and territorial unity.

 

Matters relating to the promotion of the
national interest, national unity, social

harmony and tolerance.

 

Relating to national security

 

Policies, laws, standards, planning,
implementation and regulations relating to

the national welfare, security and defense.

 

Matters of
Schedule S. | the List of
no. Constitution
al Power
1 Relating 1० 1.1.
defense and
military 1.1.1
1.1.2
1.1.3
1.2
1.2.1
1.2.2

 

 

 

 

Collection, analysis and utilization of the

 

14

 

 

information relating to the activities

contrary to national interest.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.2.3 Establishment, operation and management
of information and communication
network system relating to national
security.

1.2.4 National security council and improvement

of security sector.

1.2.5 Protection and regulation of international
borders.

1.2.6 Collection, analysis and utilization of
information relating to the border and
cross border.

1.2.7 Analysis of the situation of national
security, analysis and challenges and
solution.

1.2.8 Policy for strengthening and capacity
development of security forces.

1.2.9 Coordination, assistance, mobilization and
control between inter security agencies

1.2.10 Activities of intelligence and counter
intelligence

1.3 Relating to Nepalese Army

1.3.1 Policies, strategies, laws, standards,
planning, implementation and regulation
relating to Nepalese Army.

1.3.2 Formation, mobilization, management,
control, modernization and _ capacity
building of the Nepalese Army

1.3.3 Mobilization of Nepalese Army on the
recommendation of the security council

1.3.4 Produce, procurement and management of
the weapons and asawab.

1.3.5 Management of military barrack and

 

physical structures, |§ communication,

 

15

 

 

vehicle, equipment (navy, land and air).

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.3.6 Operation and management of National
Service Dal (RastryaSewaDal).
1.3.7 Management and operation of Military
Welfare Plan.
1.3.8 Support in the development activities
1.3.9 Support and coordination in disaster
response
1.3.10 Protection/security of national park and
wildlife conservation
1.3.11 Protection/security of important national
heritages and monuments.
1.3.12 Support for international peace promotion.
1.4 Relating to information on defense
1.4.1 Policies formulation, implementation and
regulation of information relating to
defense.
1.4.2 Research, collection, analysis and
utilization of information on defense.
2.1 War and Defense
2.1.1 Collection, analysis and utilization of
information relating to war and defense.
2.1.2 Security awareness, preparation, operation
War and
for war and defense.
Defense
2.1.3 Management of land, navy and_ air
equipment (arms, manpower,
communication equipment, vehicles etc.)
2.1.4 Management of war and defense
Arms and 3.1 Arms and ammunitions factories and
ammunitions production thereof
factories and 3.1.1 Policies, laws, standards, operation,

production

 

 

 

control and regulation relating to arms,

ammunitions and explosive materials.

 

16

 

 

thereof

3.1.2

Production of arms, ammunitions and

productive use of explosive material.

 

3.1.3

Procurement, supply and management of

arms and ammunitions.

 

3.1.4

Policy formulation and implementation

relating to diffusion of explosive mine.

 

 

 

Central
Police,
Armed Police
Force,
national
intelligence
and
investigation,
peace,
security (also
from

Schedule-7
(3)

4.1

Peace and security

 

4.1.1

Internal security

 

4.1.1.1

Policies, strategies, laws, standards,
planning, implementation and regulation
relating to internal security, peace maintain

and preventive detention

 

4.1.1.2

Laws relating to operation, supervision and
coordination of functions performed by

Nepal Police and State Police

 

4.1.1.3

Determination of quality and standards of

Nepal Police and State Police.

 

4.1.1.4

Analysis of contemporary issues and
situation relating to political, social,
economic, foreign public concern and

importance matters.

 

4.1.1.5

Collection, analysis, utilization,
coordination and protection of information
relating to the protection of important
people, place, buildings, structures,

diplomatic mission, and highways

 

4.1.1.6

Matters relating of peace and security
situation and review, actions of possible
harms, challenge and risk information to
maintain peace and security, advise and
suggestions to the state and the support of

additional security forces

 

 

 

4.1.1.7

 

Support in the capacity building of the
State Police

 

17

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4.1.1.8 Coordination between federal and inter-
state security agencies

4.1.2 Crime prevention and control

4.1.2.1 Policies, strategies, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
crime prevention and control

4.1.2.2 Information collection, analysis, exchange
and control crime and illegal activities.

4.1.2.3 Surveillance relating to crime

4.1.2.4 Investigation and legal proceedings of
severe type of crime

4.1.2.5 Support on skillful manpower, equipments,
technology, procedures (Bidhibigyan) to
the states in crime investigation

4.1.2.6 International, regional coordination and
reciprocal support relating to crime control

4.1.2.7 National record management relating to
crime

4.2 Central Police, Armed Police Force,
national intelligence and investigation

4.2.1 Central Police

4.2.1.1 Policies, strategies, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
service conditions of Nepal Police

4.2.1.2 Appraisal and reporting on the whole
situation of the peace and security within
the country.

4.2.1.3 Support in peace and security

4.2.1.4 Management of vehicles, communication-
equipment, weapons, structure of quarters
(Asawab) barrack and the office.

4.2.1.5 Support in implementation of laws

4.2.1.6 Support in disaster response

 

 

18

 

 

4.2.1.7

Relation, coordination, exchange of
information and implementation with
Interpol and international associations of

police.

 

4.2.1.8

Promotion and protection of basic human

rights and citizen’s freedom.

 

4.2.1.9

Matters relating to organized crime, anti-
state crime, drugs, intelligence terrorism,
human exchange and trafficking, serious
violence of human rights or multinational
in nature, national interest or sensitive and
serious crime in nature as per the view of
the stakeholders, joined jurisdiction of two
or more state or not relevant of any state
jurisdiction and _ research and _ legal
proceeding of special and serious nature

crimes requested by state police

 

4.2.1.10

Capacity building of the Nepal Police and

the State Police

 

4.2.1.11

Prison security and custody management

of federal level

 

4.2.1.12

Support in establishment of international

peace

 

4.2.2

Armed Police Force, Nepal

 

4.2.2.1

Policies, laws, standards, planning
implementation and regulations relating to
service conditions of Armed Police Force,

Nepal

 

4.2.2.2

Support in control of armed uprising,
armed conflict or activities of separatist,
act of terrorism and heinous crime that has

and can occur in any parts of the country.

 

4.2.2.3

Support in riot control.

 

 

 

 

 

4.2.2.4

 

Support in disaster response

 

19

 

 

4.2.2.5

Security of the international borders

 

4.2.2.6

Protection and promotion of human rights

 

4.2.2.7

Support in establishing international peace

 

4.2.2.8

Security of important people, places,
highways buildings and _ important

structures.

 

4.2.2.9

Development of manpower, mobilization
and management of resources and capacity

building

 

4.2.2.10

Management of vehicles, communication-
equipment, weapons, structure of quarters

(Asawab), barrack and the office.

 

4.2.2.11

Relation, coordination, exchange of
information and implementation with

international associations of police.

 

4.2.3

National Intelligence and Investigation

 

4.2.3.1

Policies, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
operation, supervision and control of

national intelligence service.

 

4.2.3.2

Collection, exchange, analysis, utilization
and protection of public concern and
importance information relating to
opposed of constitution, national security
and interest and underground or semi-
underground organizations, racial,
religious, communal, arm _ conflicts,
economic and organized crime, activities

of illegal organizations

 

 

 

 

 

4.2.3.3

 

Collection, analysis, and utilization of
information relating to trans border crime,
border encroachment, physical martial

situation of border territory

 

20

 

 

4.2.3.4

Activities relating to intelligence and

counter intelligence

 

4.2.3.5

Management of security, information,

coordination and networking

 

4.2.3.6

Capacity building

 

4.2.3.7

Identification and oversight of national,
regional and _ international networking
involving in terrorism and serious natured

crime

 

4.2.3.8

Management of vehicles, communication
equipment, small weapons, office and the

physical structures.

 

4.2.3.9

Information collection, analysis and
utilization of verity of national and foreign
persons, very distinguished person,
important institutions, industries,

immigration and other important matters

 

4.2.3.10

Evaluation and reporting of the national

security situation.

 

 

 

Central
planning,
central bank,
finance
policies,
monetary and
banking,
monetary
policies,
foreign
grants, aid
and loans
(From
number 10 of

Schedule 7

5.1

Central planning

 

5.1.1

Formulation, monitoring and evaluation of
national development policies, national
level short-term, medium-term and long-

term planning.

 

5.1.2

Determining the national priority sector

and targets

 

5.1.3

Formulation and implementation of short-
term, medium-term and __ long-term

planning for human resource development

 

5.1.4

Sectoral coordination in central level

development projects

 

5.1.5

Study and research

 

 

 

5.1.6

 

Formulation of regional and local policies

and strategies for balance development

 

21

 

 

 

 

included)

5.1.7

Formulation of strategies and support for

poverty alleviation and prosperity

 

5.1.8

Ministerial and sectoral plan, approval,

monitoring and evaluation

 

5.1.9

Gross national investment (government,
cooperatives and private) and financial

Management

 

5.1.10

Formulation, approval and monitoring of

annual development program

 

5.1.11

Matters relating to determination of base
and procedures of monitoring and
evaluation, monitoring and evaluation of
sectorial policy, implementation 0
development projects, review of outcomes

and monitoring

 

5.2

Economic, banking, financial sector and

foreign grants, aids and loans

 

5.2.1

Analysis of holistic economic condition
and formulation, implementation and

regulation of economic policies.

 

5.2.2

Allocation of economic resource

 

5.2.3

Matters relating to gratuity, pensions,
including service and facilities and long

term liabilities

 

5.2.4

Policies, laws, standards coordination and
regulation relating to banks and financial

institutions.

 

5.2.5

Policy formulation, implementation and
regulation relating to economic stability,

price stability

 

5.2.6

Policy formulation, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation and regulation of

developmental assistance

 

 

 

5.2.7

 

Policies, laws, standards implementation

and regulation relating to money

 

22

 

 

laundering and financial investment on

activities of terrorism.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.2.8 Matters relating to national natural
resources and fiscal commission

5.2.9 Policies, laws and standards formulation,
implementation, coordination and
regulation relating to intergovernmental
fiscal transfer

5.2.10 Relation and coordination with the
bilateral and multilateral international
organizations relating to finance and
banking.

5.2.11 Relation, coordination and cooperation
with development partner organizations.

5.2.12 Policies, laws and standards
implementation, monitoring and regulation
relating to public corporation in federal
level

5.2.1.3 Privatization policies, standards,
monitoring and regulation

5.2.14 Record and collection of government dues

5.2.15 International treaty and agreement relating
to finance and planning

5.2.16 Matters relating to revenue administration

5.2.17 Matters relating to financial administration
and control

5.2.18 Establishment, operation and regulation of
Central Bank

5.2.19 Internal and foreign loans and grants

5.3 Central bank, finance policies, monetary
and banking and monetary policies

5.3.1 Formulation, implementation, monitoring

 

and regulation of monetary policies

 

23

 

 

 

5.3.2

Banker, advisor and financial agent of

Government of Nepal

 

5.3.3

Notes and coins dismissal, security,

management and regulation

 

5.3.4

Bank and last resort of commercial banks,
developmental banks and __ financial

institutions.

 

5.3.5

Matters relating to determining policy for
foreign exchange, balance of payment,
foreign exchange management and
inspection and regulation of foreign

currency transaction

 

5.3.6

Inspection and regulation of payment

system, processing and clearance

 

5.3.7

Relation and coordination with bank and

financial institutions

 

5.3.8

Relation and coordination with
international central banks and
international banks and financial

institutions

 

5.3.9

Management of internal loans

 

5.3.10

Matters relating to increase in financial

access

 

5.3.11

Management of information relating to
money laundering and _ control of

investment in the activities of terrorism.

 

5.3.12

Establishment, supervision and regulation
of commercial banks, development banks

and financial institutions

 

5.4

Fiscal policies

 

 

 

 

 

5.4.1

 

Formulation, implementation and
regulation of policies and laws relating to

Tevenue

 

24

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.4.2 Formulation, implementation and
regulation of policies and laws relating to
public expenses

5.4.3 Management and regulation of internal and
foreign loans and grants

5.5 Federal financial system and treasury

5.5.1 Implementation and regulation of policies,
laws, standards relating to financial
procedures

5.5.2 Determination, formulation,
implementation and regulation of budget
selling

5.5.3 Management and control of accounting
system

5.5.4 Operation of federal consolidated fund

5.5.5 Estimation of federal revenue and
expenditure.

5.5.6 Federal appropriation act

5.5.7 Federal supplementary estimates

5.5.8 Federal Votes on account

5.5.9 Federal votes of credit

5.5.10 Federal contingency fund

5.5.11 Accounting management of governmental
investment and bonus

5.5.12 Matters relating to federal appropriation,
revenue, deposit, operational fund, and
other government funds and integrated
record of property and audit

Foreign and 6.1 Foreign and diplomatic affairs
Diplomatic 6.1.1 Planning, implementation and regulation
affairs, of the foreign policies, laws, standards of
international Nepal

relations and 6.1.2 Relation, coordination with foreign

United

 

 

 

diplomatic mission to Nepal and

 

25

 

 

 

 

Nations
relating

matters

diplomatic representation of Nepal in

foreign country

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.1.3 Relating to credential letter

6.1.4 Promotion of interest and increase of
credibility of Nepal in foreign country

6.1.5 Hospitality and protocol

6.1.6 Diplomatic protection of the citizens

6.1.7 Record maintenance of Nepalese citizens
residing in the foreign country and
protection of their right and interest.

6.1.8 Relating to rescue, support and
coordination of Nepalese workers in the
foreign country.

6.1.9 Economic, commerce and development
diplomacy

6.1.10 Facilities and immunity of foreign state
and diplomatic representative

6.1.11 Relating to Non Residents Nepalese

6.1.12 Diplomacy for citizen to citizen relation
promotion

6.1.13 Consular service

6.1.14 Relation and coordination with provinces
relating to foreign affairs

6.1.15 Diplomatic code of conduct

6.2 Relating to international relations and
United Nations

6.2.1 Relation with neighboring and foreign
countries

6.2.2 Relation with United Nations, SAARC and
other international or regional
organizations

6.2.3 Development and promotion of people

 

level and non-governmental organizations

in international level

 

26

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.1 International treaties and agreements
7.1.1 Relating to international treaties and
agreements
7.1.2 Matters relating to approval, incorporation,
acceptance, support, suspend and dismissal
of treaties and agreements
7.2 Extradition
7.2.1 Formulation of extradition law,
International implementation and regulation of treaty
treaties or and agreement
agreements, 7.2.2 Matters relating to approval, incorporation,
extradition, acceptance, support, suspend and dismissal
mutual legal of treaties and agreements
assistance 7.3 Relating to reciprocal legal support
and 7.3.1 Law making, treaty agreement,
international implementation and regulation relating to
borders, reciprocal legal support
international 7.3.2 Matters relating to approval, incorporation,
boundary acceptance, support, suspend and dismissal
rivers of treaties and agreements
7.4 International borders and boundary
rivers
7.4.1 Relating to international border security
and dispute resolution
7.4.2 Mapping, record keeping and
determination of international borders
7.4.3 Construction, repair, protection and record
management of border pillars
7.4.4 Relating to boundary rivers
Telecommuni 8.1 Telecommunication, information and
cations, communication technology, allocation of

allocation of

 

 

 

radio frequency

 

27

 

 

 

 

radio
frequency,
radio,
television
postal mat
(Schedule
7(14)
7(19)
included)

and

ters

and

8.1.1

Policies, laws, standards _ planning,
implementation, promotion and regulation
relating to telecommunication, information

and communication technology.

 

8.1.2

Development, management and regulation

of wire and wireless broadband network

 

8.1.3

Establishment and management of satellite

 

8.1.4

Distribution of telecommunication and
broadcasting frequency, determination of
price and permission to use mapping,

renew and regulation

 

8.1.5

Quality assurance, permission, renew and
price determination of telecommunication,
national level internet including
information and communication

technology

 

8.1.6

Planning, construction, | management,
permission and regulation of national level

information and technology park

 

8.1.7

Promotion and regulation of information

technology

 

8.1.8

Functions relating to cyber security

 

8.1.9

International relation,
convention/agreement and standard
implementation relating to
telecommunication, information and

communication technology

 

8.1.10

Study and research relating to information

and communication technology

 

8.1.11

Expansion of micro web system

 

8.1.12

International connectivity of bandwidth

 

 

 

8.1.13

 

Permission and renew of use of radio

equipment

 

28

 

 

 

8.2

Relating to radio, television and other

communication medias

 

8.2.1

National policies, laws, — standards
planning, implementation and regulation
relating to the radio, television,
newspapers and communication

institutions.

 

8.2.2

Permission, renew and regulation of

national level television

 

8.2.3

Networking, permission, renew and
regulation of radio broadcasting at national
level or FM radio more than 1000 watt and

broadcasting institutions

 

8.2.4

Permission, renew and regulation of

national level television

 

8.2.5

Permission, renew and regulation of radio
broadcasting at national level or FM radio

more than 1000 watt.

 

8.2.6

Permission, renew and regulation of
downlink, receiving signal and distribution

of the foreign television channels.

 

8.2.7

Policies, standards and regulation of online

media

 

8.2.8

Operation of federal radio, television,

newspaper and news institutions

 

8.2.9

Standardization of minimum salary of

wage earning journalists

 

8.2.10

Operation of public broadcasting

institutions

 

8.2.11

Permission, renew and regulation of all

kinds of multi distribution broadcasting

 

8.2.12

Regulation of foreign printed publications

(Chhapa) published in Nepal/inland

 

 

 

 

 

8.2.13

 

Function relating to central press register

 

29

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Customs,
excise-duty,

value added

 

 

8.2.14 Documentation, classification, facilitation
and regulation of mass media

8.2.15 Formulation, implementation,
standardization and regulation of
advertisement policy

8.2.16 Protection and promotion of right to
communication

8.3 Postal matters

8.3.1 Policies, laws, standards _ planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
postal

8.3.2 Capacity building relating to postal

8.3.3 Fixation of postal line and review

8.3.4 Postal service operation and regulation

8.3.5 Publishing, storing and documentation
management of the postal tickets

8.3.6 | wee service operation

8.3.7 Operation of postal bank

8.3.8 Management of international postal
account

8.3.9 Relation, coordination and cooperation
with international postal institutions

184 | Film, Film halls

8.4.1 National policies, laws, — standards
Formulation, implementation and
regulation relating to films and film halls

8.4.2 Development and promotion of films

8.5 Right to information

8.5.1 Policies, laws, standards implementation
and regulation relating to right to
information

9.1 Policies, laws, standards _ planning,

 

projection, implementation and regulation

relating to revenue

 

30

 

 

9.2

Target setting/fixation, projection,
administration, collection, regulation and
allocation of customs, excise duty and

value added taxes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9.3 Target fixation/setting projection,
administration, collection, distribution and
tax, corporate regulation of corporate, individual
income tax, remuneration income tax
individual 9.4 Target fixation/setting, projection,
income tax, administration, collection, allocation and
remuneration regulation of passport fee, visa fee, tourism
tax, passport fee, service fee and charge and penalty
fee, visa fee, 9.5 Utilization of natural resources and
tourism 1९९, allocation of mountaineering royalty
service a Implementation and regulation of policies,
charge and laws and revenue security mechanism
fee, penalty relating to revenue leakage control
(Schedule 9.7 Strengthening of revenue administration
9(6)
included) P| Documentation of revenue data and
information exchange
- Bilateral, regional, multilateral
coordination, treaty agreement,
implementation and regulation of tax and
custom revenue, revenue leakage control
and property purification
ए 10.1 Federal civil service, judicial service and
ederal civil
. other government service
service,
10.1.1 Planning, reformation and regulation of
judicial . . .
policies, laws, standards relating to public
10 service and
administration
other - - -
10.1.2 National policy, law and standards relating
government
to federal civil service and _ other
service

 

 

 

 

government services

 

31

 

 

10.1.3

Implementation and regulation of national
policy, law, service condition and standard
relating to management of civil and other

governmental personals

 

10.1.4

Management of groups and sub-groups of
federal civil services and other government

services

 

10.1.5

Transitional management of civil service

and other governmental services

 

10.1.6

Adjustment of civil servants 0
government service in federal, province

and local level

 

10.1.7

Human resource development and
management in civil and other government

services

 

10.1.8

Management auditing and survey of
satisfaction of service taker and monitoring

of service delivery

 

10.1.9

Relation, coordination and collaboration
with national and international
organizations and agencies relating to

public administration

 

10.1.10

Relating to centre personal agency

 

10.1.11

Organization and management survey

 

10.1.12

Civil and other governmental personal

welfare and pension management

 

10.1.13

Capacity development of civil and other
governmental personals and management

of native country and foreign scholarship

 

 

 

 

 

10.1.14

 

Training policy, standard and
standardization and national level training

and coordination with central

 

32

 

 

10.1.15

Record management of civil and other

governmental staffs

 

10.1.16

Relation and coordination of federal,

province and local public service

 

10.1.17

Coordination with federal public service
commission and provincial public service

commission

 

10.1.18

Formulation and coordination of policies
and standards relating to former civil

servants to use the knowledge skill

 

10.1.19

Personnel coordination of federal and inter

provinces

 

10.1.20

Standardization of public — service

distribution

 

10.1.21

Relating to organization relating to civil

servants

 

10.1.22

Research and development relating to civil

and other governmental services

 

 

11.

 

Policies _ and
standards
relating to
conservation
and multiple
uses of water
resources
(Including
from
schedule 7
(13,23) and
9(7))

11.1

Policy on water resources utilization

 

11.1.1

Formulation of master plan,
implementation and regulation relating to
water resource, sustainable development,
distribution of water, permission to use,
management and preservation integrated
policy, law, standards and _ design
standardization, river basin plan and water

resource utilization

 

11.1.2

Research, technology development and

capacity building of resources

 

11.1.3

International liaison, treaty agreement,
implementation and regulation of water

resources

 

 

 

11.1.4

 

Implementation, regulation of policy, law,

standard relating to adaptation of climate

 

33

 

 

change and disaster risk water resources

infrastructure structure construction

 

11.1.5

Implementation and regulation of policy,
law and standard relating to flowing area
determination of major rivers and
protection of that area, management and

utilization

 

11.1.6

Data collection, management, study,
research, analysis, prediction, projection
and information flow relating to water

resources and meteorology

 

11.1.7

Royalty standard fixation/determination,
implementation and regulation of water

resources matters and service utilization

 

11.1.8

Implementation and regulation of policy,
law, standard relating to natural rivers,
streams, lakes, ponds, wetlands and
watershed environmental protection and

tidiness

 

11.2

Use of water resources

 

11.2.1

Identification of investment opportunity
and formulation of investment plan joint
investment federal, province, local level,
private sector, cooperative, _ local
community, and common people relating

to water resources use

 

11.2.2

Identification, study, construction,
operation and regulation of multi -purpose,
inter-provincial and mega _ project

operation in federal level

 

 

 

 

 

11.3

 

Provincial border river and waterways

 

34

 

 

11.3.1

Mediation and dispute management of

provincial border river

 

11.3.2

Feasibility study, transportation,
maintenance, passenger security and
regulation of national and international

waterways

 

11.3.3

Standardization and regulation of policy

and law relating to waterways

 

11.3.4

Inland treaty and agreement relating to

waterways

 

12

Inland = and
inter-State
electricity
transmission

line

12.1

Identification of project, study,
construction, operation and regulation of
policy, law, standard relating to national

electricity transmission line

 

12.2

Implementation and regulation of treaty
agreement relating to international
electricity transmission line construction

and expansion

 

12.3

Policy, law, standard and_ regulation

relating to national electricity trade

 

12.4

Implementation and regulation of policy,
law, standard, treaty agreement relating to

international electricity trade

 

12.5

Government, private and foreign
investment on electricity transmission line
construction and development and

financial management and regulation

 

 

13

 

Central
statistics

( national and
international

standards and

quality)

13.1

National policy, law, standard, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

statistics

 

13.2

Management and quality assurance of
national statistics system according to

international level standards and systems

 

 

 

13.3

 

Determination and management of

statistical needs

 

35

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.4 Management of national census and survey
13.5 Statistical arrangement of administrative
record
13.6 Protection and management of statistical
record
13.7 Management relating to clearing house
13.8 Nepal standard classification and standard
development and use
13.9 Management of information technology in
statistic
13.10 Advisory role relating to statistic
13.11 Human resource development and capacity
building
14 Central level 14.1 Relating to central level large projects
large
electricity, 14.1.1 Project identification, study, construction,
irrigation and operation, maintenance and regulation
other projects relating to large electricity, multipurpose
(including and inter watershed shifting projects,
form national electricity transmission project
schedule and waterways
7(18) and 14.1.2 Identification, study and construction of
9(5)) large and inter-state irrigation, large water
induced hazard control projects
14.1.3 Mobilization and financial management of
government, private, cooperative, public-
private partnership and foreign investment
n water resource projects
14.1.4 Policy, law and standard relating to

 

 

 

 

rehabilitation and reestablishment program

on water resource large scale

 

36

 

 

infrastructures

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

14.2 Relating to electricity service
14.2.1 Policy and regulation relating to electricity
service standard, quality and charge or fee
14.2.2 National load system management and
operation of electricity service
14.3 Drinking water and sanitation
14.3.1 Policy, standard, quality and regulation
relating to drinking water, sanitation and
purity
14.3.2 Identification, study, construction,
operation and regulation of central level
large and inter-state drinking water
projects
14.3.3 Identification, study, construction,
operation and regulation of broad drainage
management with treatment
15.1 Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
Central
१ relating to higher education
universities,
15.2 Policy, law, standardization,
central level
. administration and regulation relating to
academies,
central university
15 universities —___ — पाए
15.3 Affiliation, accreditation, coordination and
standards and
regulation of foreign universities
regulation, - -
15.4 Policy, formulation of law and
central
management relating to central level
libraries . .
academies and central library
Including Education, 2.1 Education sector
from sports and
schedule newspaper 2.1.1 National policy, law and standardization
9(2) and 7 relating to education
(22) 2.1.2 Human resource projection and national

 

 

 

 

education plan formulation

 

37

 

 

2.1.3

Coordination with bilateral and
multilateral development partners and

agencies relating to education

 

2.1.4

Policy formulation and _ mobilization
relating to national and_ international

volunteer

 

2.1.5

Preparation and regulation of national
curriculum model 0 school level,
curriculum of core subject and sample

curriculum

 

2.1.6

National policy, curriculum model,
qualification, standardization of skill test
and regulation of technical education and

vocational trainings

 

2.1.7

Conditions for service, standardization of
qualification and capacity and regulation

of school level teachers

 

2.1.8

Determination of national standards of
educational institutions, establishment and

operation

 

2.1.9

Permission and regulation of educational
institutions operated by diplomatic mission

and foreign educational institutions

 

2.1.10

Permission to open the schools in foreign

country according to Nepalese curriculum

 

2.1.11

Determination of national standards of

school level examination

 

2.1.12

Management of examination of school

level grade twelve

 

2.1.13

Determination of equalization/equal status

of educational qualification

 

 

 

 

 

2.1.14

 

Determination of national standard relating

to scholarship and stipend

 

38

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.1.15 Permission of educational study, research
for native and foreign citizen
2.1.16 National academic research and
educational statistic management
16.1
16.2 Development and promotion of
promotional, preventive, curative,
rehabilitative and palliative health services
in national level
Health
16.3 Formulation of standards and regulation of
policies,
academic, occupational and professional
health
institutions relating to health
services,
16.4 Establishment, operation and regulation of
health
health institutions
standards,
16.5 Accreditation of hospital and health
quality and oo
institutions
monitoring,
16.6 Registration, operation, permission,
national ०0
physical infrastructures, management and
16 specialized
regulation of national or specialized
service
service providing hospitals
providing
16.7 Quality standardization and regulation
hospitals,
relating to medicine health equipments and
traditional
health technology production and
treatment
development, storage, sales and
services and
distribution and final disposal
communicabl
16.8 International health regulation, health
e disease
relating treaty and agreement and relation,
control
coordination and cooperation with
development partners
16.9 Policy and standardization of traditional

 

 

 

 

health treatment service including
ayurvedic, yunani, amchi, homeopathy and

naturopathy

 

39

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16.10 Policy and standardization relating to
communicable and non-communicable
disease control

3.1 Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
relating to health (treatment) tourism

3.2 Policy, law, standard and_ regulation
relating to social security including health
insurance

3.3 Human resource development and
management of health sector

3.4 National standardization, implementation
and regulation relating to health services
and material fee

3.5 Pharma vigilance and regulation

3.6 Standard and regulation of medicine
procurement and supply management

From 3.7 Study, research and regulation relating to
schedule Health health science
93) 3.8 Medicinal research of herbs and mineral

3.9 Management of health information system
and health audit system

3.10 Public health surveillance of national and
international concern

3.11 Standardization of basic health service

3.12 Formulation of national protocol of health
service necessary in different level

3.13 Establishment of operation of national
reference laboratory and testing centre

3.14 Development of national referral system

3.15 Quality monitoring and analysis,

 

 

 

 

model/pattern and quality standardization

 

40

 

 

of drinking water, food stuffs and air

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.16 Model/scheme formulation,
implementation coordination and
regulation of health sector climate change
adoption

3.17 Public health emergency situation, disaster
in health and epidemic management

3.18 Buffer stuck management of medicine and
medical equipment for emergency
situation

3.19 Determination of scope of basic health
services

3.20 Emergency health service delivery

17.1 Federal Parliament

17.1.1 Internal regulation and implementation
relating to federal parliament operation
manual

17.1.2 Presentation of bill, approval, sent back,

Federal and certification

Parliament, 17.2 Federal Executive

Federal

Executive, 17.2.1 Short term, midterm and long term
17 Local level national policy, standards, implementation

relating and regulation

affairs, 17.2.2 Composition, adjustment, dissolution and

special change in organizational structure of work

structure division of Nepal government and

ministries

17.2.3 Formulation, implementation and
regulation of government _ business
regulation of Nepal government

17.2.4 Supervision, control, coordination and

 

 

 

 

regulation of ministries of federal

 

41

 

 

government

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.2.5 Implementation and regulation of
decisions of council of ministry

17.2.6 Formation, acceptance and enforcement of
bills, ordinance and regulations.

17.2.7 Receiving updated information, direction
and coordination of political, economical,
social, peace maintenance, and
administrative activities of country

17.2.8 Governing arrangement and reformation

17.2.9 Good governance promotion १10
corruption control

17.2.10 | Monitoring of treaty agreement or
concurrence implementation as applied
bilateral and multilateral level

17.2.11 | Constitution and federalism
implementation and transitional
management

17.2.12 | Administrative restructure and adjustment

17.2.13 | Protection, promotion and enlargement of
human rights

17.2.14 | Relating to appointment of provincial chief

17.2.15 | Inter province council, inter province
coordination, dispute resolution and
resource management and coordination

17.2.16 | Relating to constitutional council

17.2.17_ | Establishment, management, regulation
and coordination of central level
government agencies

17.2.18 | Relating to national natural resources and

 

fiscal commission

 

42

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.2.19 | Intergovernmental fiscal relation,
coordination and cooperation

17.2.20 | Relating to constitutional, national
importance and other commissions

17.2.21 Standards, implementation, facilitation and
regulation of public service delivery by
federal and province level

17.2.22. | Support and coordination relating to
disaster management

17.2.23 | Relating to decoration (Sushovan)

17.2.24 | Internal and_ external relation and
communication of the Prime minister

17.2.25 | Certification document etc

17.2.26 | Monitoring of court decision
implementation

17.3 Affairs relating to local level

17.3.1 Policy, standard, implementation,
facilitation, and regulation relating to
number, boarders, determination of wards
and Centre of local level

17.3.2 Coordination between federal, province
and local level

17.3.3 Policy, law, standards relating to local
level affairs

17.3.4 Dispute resolution between inter-province
and local level of inter-province

17.3.5 Policy and standards relating to revenue
and natural resource utilization or profit
distribution at federal, province and local
level

17.3.6 Policy, law and standards relating to access

 

of services at ward and service Centre

 

43

 

 

through local level governments

 

17.4

Special structures

 

17.4.1

Policy, law and standards relating to
number, boundary demarcation and
structure of special, protected and

autonomous region

 

17.4.2

Relating to operation of special, protected

and autonomous regions

 

 

18

 

International
Trade,
exchange,
port,

quarantaine

18.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

international trade

 

18.2

Study, research and survey relating to

national and international trade

 

18.3

International trade diplomacy

 

18.4

Relation with international institutions,
treaty, agreement, implementation and
regulation relating to international trade

and transit

 

18.5

Policy, law, standard, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

various kinds of transportation

 

18.6

Policy, law, facilitation and regulation

relating to inter provincial trade

 

18.7

Dry port, Container freight station,
clearing/forwarding and — undertaking
service, construction and operation of

cargo warehouse

 

18.8

National standard and regulation of firms

and institutions relating to trade business

 

 

 

18.9

 

Development of physical infrastructures,
expansion and operation relating to

international trade

 

 

 

18.10

Operation and management of integrate

check post in international border point

 

18.11

International transit, warehouse and

transportation management

 

18.12

Policy, law, standards, implementation and
regulation relating to quality of food stuffs

quarantine and hygienic food

 

18.13

Policy, law, standards, implementation and
regulation relating to animal and botanical

quarantine

 

 

19

 

Civil
aviations,
international

airports

19.1

Civil aviation

 

19.1.1

Policy, law, standards, implementation and

regulation relating to civil aviation

 

19.1.2

International treaty agreement and

implementation

 

19.1.3

Permission and regulation of design and
maintenance of aircraft, operation of
aircraft, maintenance of aircraft,
construction and operation of airport, air
navigates service and activation training

institutions etc.

 

19.1.4

License, rating and regulation of civil

aviation occupation and professionals

 

19.1.5

Flight permission

 

19.1.6

Relating to application of level, standards,
guidance propounded by international civil
aviation organization to ensure aviation

safety

 

19.1.7

Relating to air navigation

 

 

 

19.1.7.1

 

Management of air sector

 

45

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19.1.7.2 | Air traffic service
19.1.7.3 | Flight weather service
19.2 International airport and others
19.2.1 International, regional and internal airport
construction, operation and management
19.2.2 Fixing and regulation of airfare, airport
fee, air navigation service fee etc.
19.2.3 Functions relating to investigation of
aircraft crash
19.2.4 Aviation security
19.2.5 Permission and regulation of aviation
games, adventurous aviation, entertaining
aviation activities like ultra light,
paragliding, hang gliding
19.2.6 Operation authorization and _ granting
permission
19.2.7 Internal airfare rate determination and
regulation
19.2.8 Domestic airport safety and commercial
use
19.2.9 Support and coordination in research and
rescue
20.1 National transportation policy
National
transportation 20.1.1 Integrated _ policy, law, standard,
policies, implementation and regulation relating to
20 management sustainable development of management
of railways of national transportation
and national 20.1.2 National transportation network and
highways interrelation of provincial development
20.1.3 Environment friendly, disability and

 

 

 

 

 

46

 

 

gender friendly, climate change adaptation
and disaster risk sensitivity and

transportation technology

 

20.1.4

Government cooperative, private, public-
private partnership and foreign investment
mobilization, financial management and

operation of service and regulation

 

20.2

Railways Management

 

20.2.1

Policy, law, standards, determination of
standard design, planning of master plan,
implementation and regulation relating to
national railway, development of rail

system including urban metro rail

 

20.2.2

Project identification, study, construction,
operation, management and regulation of

national rail network

 

20.2.3

Treaty agreement, convention,
international standard adoption and
regulation relating to railway technology,

investment and inland service operation

 

20.2.4

Study and research relating to rail system

 

20.2.5

Standard, implementation and regulation

of rail service fare and fixing of fee

 

20.2.6

Law, standard and regulation of rail safety

system

 

20.3

Management of national highway

 

20.3.1

Policy, law, standards and _ design
standards, planning, master plan
implementation and regulation relating to

national highway

 

 

 

 

 

20.3.2

 

Land acquisition, compensation fixing and

distribution, rehabilitation and

 

47

 

 

establishment for road territory of national

highway

 

20.3.3

Identification, study construction,
maintenance, and management of project

under national highway network

 

20.3.4

Determination of maintenance fee, and
collection, management of maintenance
fund of roads under national highway

network

 

20.3.5

Standards, land use management,
coordination and regulation of settlement,

development of the national highway bank

 

20.3.6

Frontal access control, access point of the
branch road and management of road

territory in national highway

 

20.3.7

Data collection, documentation and
information delivery relating to national

highway

 

20.3.8

Study and research relating to road

technology and institutional development

 

20.3.9

Treaty agreement, conventions, adoption
of international standards and regulation
relating to road and other alternative
transportation technology, investment and

inland service operation

 

20.4

Management of transportation service

 

20.4.1

Route permit, determination of fare rate,
and regulation of national level public

transportation

 

20.4.2

Control and displacement of vehicles

 

 

 

 

 

20.5

 

Safety and inclusive transportation

 

48

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

20.5.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
regulation relating to road safety
20.5.2 Hierarchical and organizational
coordination relating to road safety
20.5.3 Simple and easy access in transportation
facility
20.5.4 Promotion of safety, organized and
disability friendly public transportation
20.6 Alternative transportation
20.6.1 Policy, law, standards, planning and
regulation of ropeway, waterway including
alternative transportation
20.6.2 Identification, study and management of
alternative transportation project of
national importance
Laws relating 21.1 Relating to supreme court, high court,
to the district court and administrative of justice
supreme
court, high
21
court, district
court and
administratio
n of justice
22 Citizenship, 22.1 Citizenship, passport, visa, immigration
passport,
visa, 22.1.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
immigration regulation relating to citizenship
22.1.2 Policy, law, standards, implementation,
regulation relating to management of
integrated national identity card
22.1.3 Policy, law, standards, implementation an

 

 

 

 

0 regulation relating to citizenship,

educational certificate including age, name

 

49

 

 

and cast correction in other documents

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22.1.4 Distribution of naturalized and honorary
citizenship
22.1.5 Acquisition, requisition and termination of
citizenship according to the federal law
22.2 Passport, visa, immigration
22.2.1 Policy, law, standards implementation and
regulation of passport, visa and
immigration
22.2.2 Integrated record management relating to
passport
22.2.3 Passport administration and regulation
22.2.4 Entrance, pressure, departure management
and control and documentation of foreign
citizens in Nepal’s territory
22.2.5 Regulation of entrance and departure
points, control and management of foreign
citizens
22.2.6 Management of arrival and departure and
documentation of Nepalese citizens
23.1 Policy, law, standards, formulation,
implementation and regulation relating to
national energy, atomic energy, atomist
and biological technology
Relating 1० 23.2 Use, promotion and regulation of atomist
atomic technology
23 energy, 23.3 Quality of atmosphere, standards and
atmosphere monitoring
and space 23.4 Study and research relating to space,
science and cadastral sphere science
23.5 Scientific study, research, invention,

 

 

 

 

progress, and development of science and

technology

 

50

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24.1 Intellectual property
Intellectual
property - - -
24.1.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
(including . . .
regulation relating to intellectual property
patents, . . . :
rights including patent, designs,
designs, :
trademarks and copyrights
trademarks - -
24 24.1.2 Management and promotion of intellectual
and
rights including patents, _— designs,
copyrights) .
trademarks and copyrights
24.1.3 Relation, cooperation and coordination
with international institutions relating to
intellectual property including patents,
designs, trademarks and copyrights
25 Measurement
25.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
regulation relating to measurement
25.2 Formulation, implementation and
25 Measurement regulation of national measurement
standard according to the international
standards
25.3 Relations, coordination and cooperation
with international agencies relating to
measurement
26 Mines 26.1 National policy, law, standards, and
excavation regulation relating to mines and minerals
(Including 26.2 Survey, exploration and _ excavation
from relating to mine and mineral substance of
Schedule noble metal including radioactive,
7(15)) petroleum, natural gas and gold, platinum
26.3 Registration, permission, renew, dismissal

 

 

 

 

and regulation relating to mine and mineral
substances of noble metal including

radioactive, petroleum, natural gas and

 

51

 

 

gold, platinum

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

26.4 Foreign investment and __ technology
relating to research and excavation of mine
and mineral

26.5 Relating to geological study and research
and mapping

26.6 Estimation, collection and record
management of mines and _ mineral
substances

26.7 Establishment and operation of national
laboratory relating to mines and minerals
research and excavation

National and 27.1 National and international environment
international management
environment
management,
national
parks,
wildlife
27
reserves and
wetlands,
national
forest
policies,
carbon
services

27.1.1 National level policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to environment, climate
change

27.1.2 International treaty agreements,

 

 

 

 

implementation, commitments, networking
with organizations,
coordination and cooperation relating to

environment

 

52

 

 

27.1.3

Study and research relating to environment

and climate change

 

27.1.4

Protection, utilization and distribution of

profits of natural environment

 

27.1.5

Human resource development and

Management of environment sector

 

27.1.6

Relating to green economy

 

27.1.7

Policy, plan formulation, implementation
and regulation relating to radiation, air,
water, solid, | warming, Navakiya,
magnetic, chemical, sound _ including

pollution control

 

27.2

National parks, wildlife reserve and

wetlands

 

27.2.1

National policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

national park wildlife reserve and wetlands

 

27.2.2

Determination of policy and standards
relating to buffer region, preservation

region and hunting reserve management

 

27.2.3

Identification, preservation, management
and utilization of international importance

wetland regions

 

27.3

National forest policy

 

27.3.1

National forest policy, law, standards, and

regulation

 

27.3.2

Survey, mapping, circumscription and
forest management classification of

national forest

 

 

 

 

 

27.3.3

 

National policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to private forest,

agriculture forest and public forest

 

53

 

 

27.3.4

National policy, law, standards, and
regulation relating to wildlife biological
diversity and forest product transportation

and crime control

 

27.3.5

International treaty agreement,

implementation and regulation

 

27.3.6

Coordination and relation with

international organizations

 

27.3.7

Policy and management relating to
management and vegetation identification
and documentation of vegetation garden of

national level and herbarium

 

27.3.8

Chemical test, analysis, certification,
standardization and trade facilitation of

vegetation

 

27.4

Carbon service

 

27.4.1

Prioritization of climate change adaption
and non effective and carbon saving

promotion of forest

 

27.4.2

Standardization and regulation of green

house gas

 

27.4.3

Planning, fiscal management and capacity
building relating to carbon service and

adaptation

 

27.4.5

Establishment of environment information

system in national level

 

27.4.6

Regulation and management of harmful

material

 

27.4.7

Quality assurance and regulation of fuel

 

 

 

 

 

27.4.8

 

National model formulation,
implementation, coordination and

regulation of climate change adaptation

 

54

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

27.4.9 Quality measurement and assurance of
alternative energy technology
27.5 Hydrology and metrology
27.5.1 Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
hydrology and metrology service
27.5.2 Hydrology, metrology and other data
service
27.5.3 General and specialized services relating to
hydrology and metrology
27.5.4 Ozone study, measurement of solar
radiation and information delivery
27.5.5 Information delivery relating to
lightening/thundering
27.5.6 Relating to glacier and glacial lake
27.5.7 Management of weather radar, radio
sonde, thunder network, solar radiation
centers
27.5.8 Equipment calibration and certification
From State 13.1.1 Biological diversity management and
Schedule boundary regulation
7(13) river,
waterway,
environment
protection,
biological
diversity

 

(included in
state
boundary

river schedule

 

 

 

 

55

 

 

501)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

From 23.1 Forest, mountain and conservation area
Schedule 7
(23)
Utilization of 23.1.1 National policy, law, standards and
forest, regulation relating to protection, promotion
mountains, and management of landscape area
forest, expanding in inter-state form, forest,
conservation mountain, forest reserve area, water
areas and utilization, bio diversity, land and
forest watershed areas
extending in 23.1.2 Policy and standardization relating to bio
inter-state diversity, natural environment protection,
form utilization and distribution of profit
23.1.3 Study, research and capacity building of
forest, vegetation and geo-technology
23.2 Utilization of water inside forest areas
23.2.1 Joint investment management for water
resource utilization
7.1 Forest, wildlife, birds
7.1.1 National policy, law, standards and
Forest, regulation relating to wildlife and birds
wildlife, 7.2 Water utilization, environment, ecology
From birds, water and bio diversity
Schedule 9 | uses, 7.2.1 Standard and regulation relating to water
(7) environment resource _ identification, preservation,
ecology and monitoring and evaluation
bio-diversity 7.2.2 Relating to integrate and sectoral policy of
water uses
7.2.3 Multi-purpose large inter-state sectoral

 

 

 

 

project management relating to water uses

 

56

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

28.1 Insurance policies, securities
28.1.1 Policy, law, standards, formulation and
regulation relating to insurance
28.1.2 Policy, law, standards formulation,
implementation and regulation relating to
capital and commodity market
28.1.3 Policy, law, standards formulation,
implementation and regulation relating to
securities
28.2 Cooperative regulation
Insurance - -
28.2.1 National policy, law, standards, and
policies, . . .
regulation relating to cooperative
securities, पाए - -
28.2.2 Permission and regulation of cooperative
cooperative, . .
28 bank established at national level
regulation पाए - -
28.2.3 Coordination and cooperation with
(including . : oo १
international institutions relating to
from .
cooperative
schedule 9(1) - —
28.2.4 National statistics management and study
and 7(7)) . .
and research relating to cooperatives
28.2.5 Relation and cooperation with national and
international sectoral organizations and
agencies relating to cooperatives
28.2.6 Inter-provincial/state cooperative
coordination
28.2.7 Capacity building relating to cooperative
28.2.8 Promotion and mobilization relating to
cooperative sector
28.2.9 Standards and regulation relating to
savings and credit mobilization
29 Land use 29.1 Land use policies
policies,

 

 

 

 

 

57

 

 

 

 

human
settlement
development
policies,
tourism
policies,
environment
adaptation
(Including
from
schedule
7(24) and
9(13))

29.1.1

Policy, laws, standards, planning and

regulation relating to use of land

 

29.1.2

Use of land, mapping of capacity and

appropriateness

 

29.2

Human settlement development policies

 

29.2.1

Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
relating to human settlement development,
urban development, housing and building

and land use

 

29.2.2

National policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to unmanaged

settlement

 

29.2.3

Construction and maintenance of national
level and national importance housing and

buildings

 

29.2.4

Formulation, implementation and

regulation of Nation building code

 

29.2.5

Identification and promotion of inter-state
cities and cities situated in international

border and national importance

 

29.2.6

National policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to transportation

infrastructures of city areas

 

29.2.7

Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
relating to rehabilitation for displaced from

national importance projects

 

29.2.8

Policy, standards, plan formulation and
regulation relating to common and multi

storage government housing of state level

 

 

 

29.2.9

 

Policy, standard and regulation relating to
housing management targeted for in the
verge of extinction, marginalized, poor and

senior citizens

 

58

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

29.3 Tourism policy
29.3.1 National policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
tourism development
29.3.2 Relation, cooperation and coordination
with international tourism organizations
29.3.3 National policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
mountaineering, travel and trekking
29.3.4 Development of international promotion of
touristic destination including _ natural,
religious, cultural archeological,
adventurous
Criminal and 30.1 Formulation, implementation and
30 civil laws regulation of criminal and civil laws
making
31.1 National policy, standards, laws, planning,
Security
31 implementation and regulation relating to
Printing
security printing press and printing
31.2 Operation and management of security
printing service
31.3 Printing, distribution and documentation of
Nepal gazette
32.1 Social security
32.1.1 National policy, law, standards and
Social regulation relating to social security
security and 32.1.2 Policy, law, operation of fund and
32 poverty regulation relating to social security fund
alleviation 32.1.3 Relation, coordination and cooperation

 

 

 

 

with national and international agencies
and organizations relating to social

security

 

59

 

 

32.2

Poverty alleviation

 

32.2.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation, regulation and study and

research relating to poverty alleviation

 

32.2.2

Standardization of national poverty line

and level of living standard

 

32.2.3

Survey, information management and
regulation relating to identification of poor

households

 

32.2.4

Management of identity card and poor

households

 

32.2.5

Planning, implementation and regulation
relating to social security and protection

for identified poor households

 

32.2.6

Relation, coordination and cooperation
with national and international

organizations and development partners

 

32.2.7

Inter-state coordination

 

33

Constitutional
Bodies,
commissions
of national

importance

33.1

Relating to constitutional —_ bodies,

commissions of national importance

 

 

34

 

Sites of
archaeologic
al
importance
and ancient

monuments

34.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
areas of archaeological importance and

ancient monuments

 

 

 

34.2

 

Protection, maintenance, study, research,
excavation, reconstruction of historical,
archaeological, religious and culturally
important places and heritage registered in

world heritage catalogue

 

60

 

 

34.3

Protection of treaty agreement documents

signed with foreign friendly nations

 

34.4

National policy, law, standards and

regulation relating to museum

 

34.5

Establishment, operation and management

of national museum

 

34.6

National policy, law, standard, study,
research, coordination and _ regulation
relating to culture, fine art, religion,

civilization and heritage

 

34.7

Policy, law, standards, planning,
regulation, and management relating to

world heritage trust (Guthi)

 

34.8

Relation and coordination with
international organizations relating to
archaeology, cultural heritage, religion and

traditions

 

 

35

 

Any matter
not
enumerated
in the Lists of
Federal
powers, State
Powers and
Local Level
Powers or in
the
Concurrent
List and any
matter not
specified in
this
Constitution

and in_ the

 

 

35

 

Residual powers

 

61

 

 

Federal laws

 

 

 

 

 

 

Detailing of Federal Powers provisioned in Schedule 7 of the Constitution as the list of

concurrent powers of Federation and State

 

Civil and 1.1
criminal

procedure,
evidence and
oaths (legal
1 recognition,
public acts

and records,

Formulation of criminal and _ civil
procedures code of conduct and

implementation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and judicial 1.2 Classification of crime investigation by
proceedings) Nepal police and State police in criminal
law and procedures
2.1 Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
supply of essential goods and services,
standardization and distribution
on 2.2 Standards, implementation and regulation
uppty:
. " र relating to classification of essential goods,
distribution,
. listing and price determination
price control,
. 2.3 Policy, law, implementation and regulation
quality and
. relating to protection of consumer rights
2 monitoring
and promotion
of essential
2.4 Management of buffer stock of essential
goods and
goods
services
2.5 Price determination and regulation of
goods and services of federal public
corporation relating to supply
2.6 Federal price subsidy and regulation in

 

 

 

 

goods and services for targeted areas and

class

 

62

 

 

2.7

Food security, food rights and food

sovereignty

 

2.8

Federal food nutrition policy formulation

and monitoring

 

2.9

Policy, law and regulation functions
relating to promotion of free competition

and control of cartelizing and syndicate

 

2.10

Aggregative coordination of essential

goods supply

 

2.11

Import, processing, storage, quality
control, price determination, supply

management and regulation of petroleum

 

2.12

Information collection, analysis, projection
and supply management relating to
demand and supply of essential goods and

services in national level

 

2.13

National quality assurance, test and
certification of goods, services, process

and systems

 

2.14

Goods, services, process and system

accreditation

 

 

 

Preventive
detention for
reasons
connected
with the
security ४
the
country,
prison and
detention
management,
and

maintenance

3.1

Management of peace and security

 

3.1.1

National policy of law formation and

regulation relating to peace and security

 

3.1.2

Coordination, facilitation, advice,
suggestions and support/cooperation with

state relating to peace and security

 

3.1.3

Vehicle control and regulation in national

highways

 

3.2

Preventive detention

 

 

 

3.2.1

 

Policy, law formulation, implementation

and regulation of preventive detention

 

63

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.3 Prison and detention management
of peace and 3.3.1 Policy formulation, implementation and
order regulation relating to prison and detention
4.1 Policy, law, standards, permission and
regulation relating to transfer of accused
persons, prisoners and detainees from one
state to another state
4.2 Policy implementation and_ regulation
relating to detainees and prisoners transfer
Transfer of
and prison and detention management
accused
4.3 Establishment, operation, management and
persons,
regulation of central prison
detainees - त
4.4 Policy, law, standards, coordination and
and prisoners
regulation relating to rehabilitation and
from one . .
compensation of crime, tortured and
State to
sufferer
another State -
4.5 Matters relating to degree, honor and
medal on behalf of the state
4.6 Management of national level public
holiday, celebration, summon (urdi) etc.
4.7 Policy, law and management relating to
matters of landless squatters
Laws 5.1 Policy, law, standards and _ regulation

relating to
family
affairs
(marriage,
transfer of
property,
divorce,
persons on
the verge of
extinction,

orphan,

 

 

 

relating to family affairs (marriage,
transfer of property, divorce,

persons on the verge of extinction, orphan,
adoption, succession and

joint family)

 

64

 

 

adoption,
succession
and

joint family)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6.1 Policy, law, standards formulation and
Acquisition,
oo, regulation relating to acquisition,
requisitionin ooo, .
requisitioning of property and creation of
g of property
. right in property
and creation
of right in
6.2 Land acquisition, requisitioning of
property
property for national and central level
project
Contracts, 7.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
cooperatives, regulation relating to contracts,
partnership cooperatives, partnership and agency
and agency relating matters
relating
matters
Matters 8.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
relating to regulation relating to bankrupt industries
bankruptcy or vocational firm management
and
insolvency
Drugs and 9.1 oo
pesticides
(including
from
schedule
5(16))
9.1.1 Matters relating to human relating drugs

 

 

 

 

65

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9.2 Agriculture and livestock relating drugs
and pesticides
9.2.1 Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
relating to agriculture and _ livestock
relating drugs, utilization and management
of micro nutritional and pesticides
9.2.2 Information collection and information
delivery of permitted and_ restricted
pesticides in international level
9.2.3 Relation, coordination and cooperation
with international organizations relating to
pesticide control and management
9.2.4 Import permission and regulation of drugs
and pesticides
10.1 Planning, family planning and population
management
10.2 National policy, law, standards, planning
Planning, and regulation relating to population,
family migration and family planning
planning and 10.3 Study, research and projection relating to
population population in national level
10 management 10.4 Migration, survey and situation analysis
(including
from 10.5 Relation and coordination with national
schedule and international institutions
5(5)) 10.6 Human resource management relating to
population
10.7 Establishment and operation of population
information system at national level
11 Social 11.1 Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
security and relating to employment promotion
employment, 11.2 National policy, law, standards,

 

trade unions,

settlement of

 

 

 

implementation, regulation of foreign

employment and industrial disputes

 

66

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.3 National policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to workers (labors) and
social security of labors

11.4 Data system and study research relating to
employment

11.5 Employment oriented _ skillful and
vocational training policy and regulation

11.6 Umbrella policy law and standards relating
to trade union

11.7 Policy, law formulation and regulation

industrial relating to child labor eradication

disputes, 11.8 Relation, cooperation and coordination
labour rights with international organizations relating to
and disputes labor and children

relating 11.9 Policy, law and regulation relating to
matters occupational health and security

11.10 Work permit for foreigners

11.11 Labor diplomacy

Legal 12.1 Matters relating to legal profession,
profession, auditing, engineering, medicines, Ayurved
auditing, medicines, veterinary, Amchi and other
engineering, professions
medicines, 12.2 Policy, standards and classification and
12 Ayurved regulation relating to legal profession,
medicines, auditing, engineering, medicines, Ayurved
veterinary, medicines, veterinary, Amchi and other
Amchi 1१10 professions
other 12.3 Occupational permission according to
professions standards and classification
State 13 Included in Schedule 5 (11)
13 boundary
river,
waterways,

 

 

 

 

 

67

 

 

environment

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

protection,
biological
diversity
Matters 14 Included in Schedule 5 (8)
relating to
14 means of
communicati
on
Industries 15.1 Industries and physical infrastructure
and mines
and physical 15.1.1 Industrial policy, law, standards, planning,
infrastructure implementation and regulation
s (including 15.1.2 National policy, law, standards, planning,
from 7(21)) implementation and regulation relating to
industrial region and special economic
sector
15.1.3 National policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
foreign investment and technology transfer
15 15.1.4 Registration, operation, permission,
dismissal and regulation relating to
security sensitive industries
15.1.5 Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation
establishment and operation of industry,
business and company
15.1.16 | Physical infrastructure policy, law,
standards, coordination and regulation
relating to industry and mines development
21.5 Export promotion of industrial goods
21.6 Relation, coordination and cooperation

 

 

 

 

with international industrial organizations

 

68

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.7 Industrial development and promotion

21.8 Development, promotion, regulation of
federal public corporation

Casino, 16.1 Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
16 lottery relating to casino and lottery

17.1 National policy, law, standards,
planning, implementation and
regulation relating to early
preparedness for, rescue, relief and
rehabilitation from, natural
and man-made calamities

Earl 17.1.1 Establishment and operation of national
arly
disaster fund and support in
preparedness
provincial/local disaster fund
for, rescue,
. 17.1.2 Relation, coordination and cooperation
relief and
with international agencies and
rehabilitation
organizations relating to disaster
from, natural
management
and man-
17 17.1.3 Early disaster preparedness at national
made
. level
calamities
. 17.1.4 Emergency operation system
(included
from ० ५ : sys ५
17.1.5 Mapping and disaster risk mitigation of
schedule . .
major hazards at national level
9(9))

17.1.6 Support and coordination for early disaster
preparedness, response, hazard reduction,
rehabilitation and reconstruction at the
state and local level

17.1.7 Post disaster rehabilitation and
reconstruction at national level

17.1.8 National statistic management relating to

 

 

 

 

disaster

 

69

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.1.9 Study and research relating to disaster risk
reduction
17.1.10 | Seismological study and __ research,
earthquake monitor, operation and
seismological centers
Tourism, 18.1 Included in Schedule 5(29) and Schedule
water supply 5(14)
18 and
sanitation
19.1 Motion pictures, cinema halls
19.1.1 National policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to motion pictures and
cinema halls
19.1.2 Encouragement for filming motion
pictures in national and _ nationality
language
19.1.3 Film festival
Motion
. 19.1.4 Permission of filming of motion pictures
pictures,
19 cinema _ halls
19.1.5 Other functions relating to motion picture
and sports
development and promotion and regulation
19.2 Sports
19.2.1 National policy, law, standards
formulation and implementation relating to
sports and scout
19.2.2 Study and research relating to sports and
scout matters
19.2.3 Relation and coordination with

 

 

 

 

international organizations relating to

sports and scout

 

70

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Insurance 20.1 Policy, law, standards, management and
business regulation relating to insurance and
operation insurance business
20
and
management
Poverty 21.1 Included in Schedule 5(32) relating to
alleviation poverty alleviation and industrialization in
and Schedule 7(15)
21 industrializat
ion
22.1 Policy, law, standards, planning and
implementation of scientific research,
science and technology and human
resources
22.2 Relation, coordination and cooperation and
treaty agreement with national and
international institutions relating to science
Scientific and technology
research, 22.3 Data collection, processing and survey of
science and science and technology matter
22 technology 22.4 Utilization and promotion, control and
and human regulation of atomic technology and
resources chemicals
development 22.5 Invention, progress and development of
scientific study research and science and
technology
22.6 Establishment of data system and
management about the utilization status of
radioactive matters
22.7 Exploration and recovery and management

 

 

 

 

of atomic matters heirless sources

 

71

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Utilization of 23 Included in the Schedule 5(27)
forests,
mountains,
forest
conservation
23
areas and
waters
stretching in
inter-State
form
24.1 Land policies and laws relating thereto
24.1.1 Land policy and national law, standard and
regulation thereto
24.1.2 National record management of private
government and public land
24.1.3 National law, standards, regulation relating
to land acquisition
24.1.4 Land acquisition, determination of
compensation and _ coordination in
Land
distribution and facilitation for the purpose
policies and
त of federal
24 laws relating
24.1.5 International relation, coordination and
thereto
cooperation relating to land
24.1.6 National geo-information system
24.1.7 Policy 110 standards relating to
rehabilitation of landless dalits, landless
freed bounded workers, haliya, agriculture
and livestock workers (harawa, charawa)
24.1.8 Standardization relating to ownership
transfer of land
24.2 Land measurement map

 

 

 

 

 

72

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

24.2.1 Matters relating to basic control point of
measurement and networking
24.2.2 Matter relating to geodesy and topographic
measurement
24.2.3 Geographical information infrastructure
24.2.4 Central geo-information record system
24.2.5 Measurement map and record of state and
local level border
24.2.6 Construction, re-establishment and
maintenance of international border and
boundary pillar
25.1 Policy formulation and regulation relating
Employment
to capacity development and support to the
25 and unemployed
unemployme
ntaid 25.2 Data collection, study and research relating

to unemployment

 

Detailing of f

concurrent powers

ederal power provisioned

in the Schedule 9 of the constitution from the list of

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 Cooperatives 1.1 Included in Schedule 5(28)
Included in Schedule 5(15) relating to
education
2.1 Newspapers
Education,
2 2.1.1 Standard of code of conduct relating to
health and
newspapers
newspapers
2.1.2 Operation, expansion and regulation of
public printed communication
(newspapers)
2.1.3 Monitoring, recording and management

 

 

 

 

(federal level newspapers)

 

73

 

 

2.2

Sports

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.1 Policy, law, standard, implementation and
regulation relating to sport

2.2.2 Sport administration and regulation and
coordination of the organizations

2.2.3 Sport development and promotion in
national and international level

2.2.4 Organizing national and_ international
sports and participation

3 Included in Schedule 5(16)

Health

Y Agriculture

4.1 National policy, law and standardization
and regulation relating to agriculture

4.2 National policy and standardization and
regulation relating to biological diversity
and biological technology

4.3 Relation and coordination with multilateral
and bilateral agencies and organizations
relating to agriculture

44 Statistic system of national standard, study,

Agriculture

research, resource protection, development
and expansion relating to agriculture

45 Development and management of
international accreditation relating to
agriculture and food

4.6 International trade facilitation and
regulation relating to agriculture and food

4.7 Coordination and regulation relating to
imported fertilizer supply

4.8 International epidemic control _ of

 

 

 

agriculture and livestock

 

74

 

 

4.9

National policy, standardization relating to

veterinary

 

4.10

Registration, permission, renew, dismissal

and regulation of veterinary doctor

 

4.11

Inter-state development and promotion of
agriculture, industrialization, livestock

industry business

 

4.12

Determination of national quality and

regulation relating to seed and breeding

 

4.13

Policy, law, and regulation relating to

inland pasture land and barren land

 

4.14

National food security, food rights and

food sovereignty

 

Services
such as
electricity,
water
supply,
irrigation

5.1

Standards, determination of fee and
quality, regulation and monitoring of

electricity service

 

5.2

National load operation system of

electricity

 

5.3

Standards, quality assurance and regulation
relating to water supply, sanitation and

sewage Management

 

5.4

Operation, maintenance and management
of dam, water tank, other headwork
structure , operation of major canal and
maintenance and management of inter-

state large scale irrigation system

 

5.5

Embankment operation and maintenance

and management of state boundary river

 

 

 

Service 1९९,
charge,
penalty and
royalty from
natural
resources,

tourism fee

6.1

Included in Schedule 5(9)

 

6.2

Policy, law, standard formulation and
implementation and regulation relating to

allocation of tourism fee

 

 

 

6.3

 

Collection and distribution of service fee

and charge

 

75

 

 

 

Forests,
wildlife,
birds, water
uses,
environment,
ecology and

diversity

Included in Schedule 5(27)

 

Mines and

minerals

Included in Schedule 5(26)

 

Disaster

Management

Included in Schedule 7(17)

 

10

Social
security and
poverty

alleviation

10

Included in Schedule 5(32)

 

11

Personal
events,
births,
deaths,
marriages

and statistics

Policy, law, standard formulation,
implementation relating to personal events
(vital registration) and coordination and

regulation with state and local level

 

12

Archaeology
5 ancient
monuments
and

museums

12

Included in Schedule 5(34)

 

 

13

 

Landless
squatters

Management

 

 

 

National policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to landless squatters

Management

 

76

 

 

 

 

14.1 Policy, law, standard formulation,
Royalty from implementation and regulation relating to
14 natural royalty allocation received from natural
resources resources
14.6 Royalty collection and
allocation/distribution
15.1 Route permit, renew, regulation and
Motor , त .
monitoring of public transportation
15 vehicle
services operated in national and state
permits

 

 

 

 

level highways

 

 

Detailing of the function provisioned in the articles of fundamental rights and directive

principles of state in the constitution

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.1 Policy, law, standard formulation and
implementation and regulation relating to
Organization
1 organizational registration
registration - - -
1.2 Matters relating to international
organization registration
2.1 Policy, law, standard formulation,
Rehabilitatio implementation and regulation relating to
n and rehabilitation and compensation of crime
2 compensatio and torture victims
n of crime 2.2 Coordination with state and local level
victims relating to rehabilitation and compensation
of crime and torture victims
3.1 Celebration and management of different
Management . . . .
festivals, religious procession running
3 of traditional
under traditional trust (guthi) in national
trust (Guthi)
level
4 Rights of 4.1 Policy, standards, law and regulation of
housing basic housing
5 Relating to 5.1 National policy, law, standards, planning

 

women

 

 

 

and regulation relating to women rights

 

77

 

 

rights

5.2

National policy and regulation relating to
women violence, human transaction and

trafficking control

 

5.3

International treaty, agreement
implementation and reporting of

commitments relating to women

 

5.4

Research and study in the matters relating
to women empowerment and_ gender

equality

 

5.5

Preventive, protective and judicial

rehabilitation relating to gender violence

 

5.6

Function relating to gender responsive

budget and auditing

 

Protection of

child rights

6.1

National policy, law, standards, planning

and regulation relating to children

 

6.2

Relation, coordination and cooperation
with international organizations relating to
children and implementation and reporting

commitments of treaty and agreement

 

6.3

Result oriented indicators and

standardization relating to child rights

 

6.4

Study and research relating to children

 

6.5

Matter relating to adoption (son and

daughter)

 

Protection of
consumer

rights

7.1

Protection of consumer rights

 

7.1.1

Policy, law, standardization,
implementation and regulation relating to

protection of consumer rights

 

 

 

Youth sector

Youth sector

 

 

 

8.1

 

National policy, law, planning and

regulation relating to youth

 

78

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.2 Relation and coordination with
international organizations
Civil and Civil and intergovernmental service
intergovernm coordination, interrelationship and
ental service partnership
So coordination, 9.1 Policy, standardization, implementation
interrelations and regulation relating to civil and
hip and intergovernmental service coordination,
partnership interrelationship and partnership
Use of knowledge and skills of ex-civil
Use of
servants
knowledge - - -
10.1 Policy, law, planning formulation and
10 and skills of
implementation relating to use of
ex-civil . .
knowledge and skills of ex-civil servants
servants
in federal, state and local level
Policy of Policy of state (policy relating to
state (policy development)
11 relating ०
development
)
11.1 Infrastructural development policy with
provincial balance
11.2 Policy on private sector and local people
participation building in development and
construction process
11.3 Investment in scientific study, research and
technology development
11.4 Policy on development/expansion of
information in technology according to
national needs
11.5 Policy on simple and easy access to
information technology of common
people/general public
11.6 Matters relating to maximum use of

 

 

 

 

information technology in national

 

79

 

 

development

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.7 Coordination and cooperation in provincial
partnership
12 Policy of state (Relating to policy on
. natural resources and _ preservation,
Policy of
promotion and use of resources)
state
१ 12.1 Policy on multi-purpose development of
(Relating to
water resource considering the priority to
policy on
the national investment based on people’s
natural
participation
12 resources - -
त 12.2 Production and development policy of
an
renewal energy
preservation, - - —____
12.3 Sustainable गा0 reliable irrigation
promotion
development policy with water induced
and use of .
hazard control and river management
resources) - - - -
12.4 Policy relating to pre information system
for disaster risk reduction
13 Policy of state (policy relating to basic
needs of citizens)
13.1 Basic housing policy
13.1.1 Management policy of unmanaged
. settlement
Policy of
13.1.2 Planned and managed _ settlement
state (policy
development
13 relating to
13.1.3 Basic transportation policy
basic needs
of citizens) - - -
13.1.4 Investment increment in transportation
sector
13.1.5 Simple, easy and equal access of citizens
in transportation facility
13.1.6 Priority to the environment friendly

 

 

 

 

technology

 

80

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.1.7 Public transportation management
13.1.8 Regulation and control for private
transportation
13.1.9 Safety, managed and handicapped friendly
transportation system
Matters 14.1 Law formulation and management relating
14 relating to to referendum
referendum
15.1 Policy formulation and final decision
15 Pardon relating to pardon, suspend, commute or
remit
Matters 16.1 Matters relating to degree, honor and
relating to medal on behalf of the state
16 degree,
honor 910
medal
17 Water supply 17 Safe water supply to the public

 

Detailing of functions provisioned in the

Work Allocation Rules and other acts and regulations

 

 

 

 

 

 

Public 1.1 Management of national public holiday
holiday festivals and summon etc.
1 festivals and
summon etc.
Refugee 2.1 Policy, law and management relating to
2 affairs refugee affairs
3 Mines 3.1 Policy formulation and implementation
relating to mine diffusion
4 Matters y Matters relating to social welfare and
relating to organizations
social 4.1 Policy and law formulation,

 

welfare and

 

 

 

implementation and regulation relating to

national and international non-government

 

81

 

 

organizations

organizations

 

4.2

Functions relating to working concurrence
and visa of foreign representatives and
experts working in international non-

government organizations

 

4.3

Monitoring and evaluation of the functions
relating to senior citizens, handicapped

person and incapable, children and women

 

44

Monitoring an devaluation of the function

relating to social welfare and organizations

 

 

 

 

Conflict
management
and _ peace

building

Conflict management and_ peace

building

 

5.1

Formulation, implementation monitoring
and regulation of immediate/short term
and long term policy, strategy and
programs for peace building, conflict
management and development and
reconstruction of physical infrastructures

damaged frame conflict

 

5.2

Policy, strategy and program of social and

economic development of conflict victims

 

5.3

Implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of detail peace agreement
including other agreement, concurrence

decisions

 

5.4

Required institutional, procedure and
technical matter to maintain peace and

security

 

5.5

Study, analysis relating to peace building

and conflict management

 

5.6

Relief financial support and rehabilitation
of suffered from conflict and displaced

persons

 

 

 

5.7

 

Matters relating to required information,

study materials, and record Centre of study

 

82

 

 

reports and management of conflict and
peace relating to peace building and

conflict management

 

 

 

 

 

5.8 Management of commission and
committees relating to peace building and
conflict management

Explosive 6.1 Policy, law formulation relating to use of
matters/ explosive matters/substances

substances

Matters 7.1 Policy, law formulation of weapons and

relating to
permission
of | weapon
and
ammunition

and renew

 

 

 

ammunitions

 

83

 

4.2 Unbundling/Detailing of the list of Exclusive State (Province) Province Power

 

Unbundling/Detailing of the list of Exclusive State (Province) Power

(Schedule-6)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Matters of
Schedule | the List of
Detailing of Power
S. no. Constitutio
nal Power
1 State police 1.1. State police administration
administrati 1.1.1 Policy, law, implementation and regulation
on and relating to state police
peace and
order 1.1.2 State police mobilization, management and
(Including regulation according to the federal law
from
Schedule 7
(3,4)) 1.1.3 Supply and management of physical

 

 

 

 

 

infrastructure, weapons, ammunitions,
means ० transport, communication

equipment and materials with barrack and

 

84

 

 

offices

 

Crime investigation, prevention and control

within the state

 

Matters relating to the peace and security
management within the state, support in
implementing law, police mobilization
according to the necessity, support to
central police and other security body for
highway including international border

security

 

Functions relating to disaster response

 

Relation, information exchange and
coordination with central police and police

organizations of the other states

 

Support on protection of basic human
rights, protection and promotion of

citizens’s freedom

 

Capacity building of the state police

 

1.1.10

Provincial prison security and detention

Management

 

1.1.11

Community police

 

1.1.12

State police welfare

 

1.1.13

Traffic management of highways, feeder
roads (Sahaayak Marga) and local roads

within the state

 

1.1.14

Support an judgment implementation
including other functions decided by
judicial and semi-judicial agencies within

state

 

 

 

 

 

1.2

 

Peace and Order

 

85

 

 

1.2.1

Policy, law, standards and_ planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
peace and security and public order for the

state

 

1.2.2

Information collection, analysis, exchange,
use and reporting relating to possible harms,
challenges and risk affecting the peace and

security

 

1.2.3

Analysis, observation, control and
evaluation of whole situation of peace and
security in the state and adoption/prop of
necessary security ways and_ periodic

repairing

 

1.2.4

Coordination and cooperation with the
federation relating to public order within
state and peace and order out of control of

the state

 

1.2.5

Security of important persons, important
physical structures, sensitive public places,

celebration, fair, procession etc.

 

1.2.6

Security of disaster affected area, person

and property

 

1.2.7

Operation, supervision and coordination of
the functions to be completed by the state

police

 

1.2.8

Relation with state and central security

agencies

 

1.2.9

Relating to local development

 

1.2.9.1

Union, organization registration,

documentation and regulation

 

 

 

 

 

1.2.9.2

 

Grievance and dispute management

 

86

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.2.9.4 Relating to age, name and caste correction

1.2.9.5 Coordination in disaster management

1.2.9.6 Semi-judicial functions

1.2.9.7 Relating to weapons and ammunitions

1.2.9.8 Functions relating to storage of explosive
materials and use according to federal
standards

1.3 Crime prevention and control

1.3.1 Information collection, analysis and
utilization relating to crime within the state

1.3.2 Matters relating to prevention, investigation
and control of crime except the
responsibility of the central police

1.3.3 Support and coordination to other state and
federal in crime investigation

1.3.4 Matters relating to prevention, investigation
and control of crime except the
responsibility of the central police

1.3.5 Implementation of criminal procedures

1.3.6 Rehabilitation of the crime sufferer and
compensation for the crime and torture
victims

1.3.7 Security management, construction of
physical __ infrastructure, maintenance,
operation and detention management of
provincial prisons

1.3.8 Human right protection and enhancement of
detainees and prisoners

1.3.9 Management of security relating to transfer

 

 

87

 

 

of accused, detainees and prisoners from

one state to another state

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1.3.10 Implementation of work relating to
preventive detention and place limitation
(Sthan had)
2 Economic, planning, financial sector
2.1 Economy Sector
Operation of
banks and 2.1.2 Analysis and formulation of economy
financial policy, implementation and regulation of
institutions macro economical status of the state
in 2.1.3 Allocation of economic resource
accordance
with the 2.1.4 Policy formulation, implementation and
policies of regulation relating to state economy
Nepal Rastra stabilization, price stabilization
Bank, 2.1.5 Receive, use, accounting and reporting of
cooperative foreign grant and assistance accordance to
institutions, the approval of federation
foreign 2.1.6 Matters relating to state services and
grants facilities and long term financial liability
and 2.1.7 Integrated inventory of state government
assistance property
with the 2.1.8 Record/inventory and collection of dues of
consent ० the state government dues
the Centre 2.2 Planning
(Including
from 2.2.1 Matters relating to state development
Schedule policies, short term, medium term and long
7(10)) term plan formulation and monitoring and
evaluation
2.2.2 Matters relating to state priority areas/sector

 

 

 

and target determination

 

88

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.2.3 Short term and long term plan formulation
for provincial human resource development

2.2.4 Coordination in inter-sectoral central
development projects and utilization of
conditional grant

2.2.5 Study research

2.2.6 Sectoral policy and strategy formulation for
balanced development

2.2.7 Strategy formulation of poverty alleviation

2.2.8 Sectoral plan approval

2.2.9 Projection of gross state investment
(government, cooperative and private) and
financial management

2.2.10 Approval, implementation and regulation of
annual development programs

2.2.11 Matters relating to basis of monitoring and
evaluation in state level, determination of
procedures, monitoring and evaluation of
sectoral policies, implementation,
monitoring and review of outcome of
development projects

2.3 Financial sector

2.3.1 Operation and facilitation of financial
institutions

2.3.2 Policy, law formulation, implementation
and regulation relating to state revenue

2.3.3 Management and regulation of state internal
and foreign loan and grant

2.3.4 Co-financing accordance to federal policy

 

 

89

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.4 Cooperative organizations

2.4.1 Provincial policy, law, standards,
implementation and regulation relating to
cooperative institutions

2.4.2 Permission, operation and _ regulation
relating to provincial = cooperative
institutions, cooperative banks

2.4.3 Provincial standards and regulation relating
to cooperative saving and loan mobilization

2.4.4 Coordination and cooperation with national,
central, sectoral and inter-state
organizations relating to cooperative

2.4.5 Coordination and cooperation with
provincial and local level organizations
relating to cooperative

2.4.6 Provincial data management and_ study
research relating to cooperative

2.4.7 Capacity enhancement relating 1०
cooperative

2.4.8 Promotion and mobilization of cooperative
sector

2.5 State financial procedures

2.5.1 Policy and law formulation, implementation
and regulation relating to state financial
procedures

2.5.2 Matters relating to budget ceiling
determination, formulation, implementation
and regulation and financial discipline

2.5.3 Account control and management

2.5.4 Operation and management of state

 

consolidated fund

 

90

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2.5.5 Estimates of state revenue and expenditures
2.5.7 State appropriation act (including resources
provided to the local level)
2.5.8 State supplementary estimation
2.5.9 States votes and accounts
2.5.10 State contingency fund
2.5.11 Account management of state government
investment and bonus
2.5.12 Integrated statement/inventory and audit of
provincial allocation, revenue, deposit,
operation fund and other government and
property
3.1 Radio, F.M, Television
Operation of 3.1.1 Provincial policy, _law, standards,
Radio, F.M, implementation and regulation relating to
Television operation of radio, F.M and television
(including 3.1.2 Permission and renewal of FM, Radio
from having more than 100 watt to 1000 watt
Schedule 3.1.3 Operation permission, renewal १10
6(3), 7(14) regulation of electronic communication
and 9(2)) medias of state level
3.2 Communication, information technology
and mass media
3.2.1 Development, management and regulation
of wire and wireless broadband in state
level
3.2.2 Planning, construction, management and

 

 

 

regulation of state information technology

park

 

91

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.2.3 Promotion of information technology

3.2.4 Operation, management and regulation of
telecentres within the state

3.2.5 Registration, permission, renewal and
regulation of state level internet service

3.2.6 Monitoring of cyber security

3.2.7 Monitoring of journalist code of conduct

3.2.8 Registration, permission, determination of
code of conduct, documentation,
classification, operation and regulation of
printed communication media

3.2.9 Registration, renewal, record, monitoring
and regulation of online media and
communication media based on _ other
technology

3.2.10 Registration, renewal, record, monitoring
and regulation of online media and
communication media based on _ other
technology

3.2.11 Press information delivery, production,
publication and distribution of information
materials

3.2.12 Monitoring of minimum wages of wage
earning journalists

3.2.13 Matters relating to state level press register

3.2.14 Permission, renewal and regulation of cable
distribution

3.2.15 Provincial protection and promotion of
communication rights

3.2.16 Provincial policy, law, standards,

 

implementation and regulation relating to

 

92

 

 

information rights

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

House and 4.1 Policy, law, standards, regulation,
land collection and distribution relating to house
registration and land registration fee, motor vehicle tax,
fee, motor entertainment tax, advertisement tax,
vehicle tax, tourism, agro-income tax, service charge,
entertainme fee, penalty

nt tax, 4.2 Collection, regulation, and handover of
advertiseme royalty from natural resources and fee from
nt tax, tourism according to federal law and state
tourism, law

agro-income 4.3 Provincial policy, _law, standards,
tax, service implementation and regulation relating to

4 charge 1९९, revenue leakage control
service 44 Intergovernmental fiscal connection,
charge, fee, relation, cooperation and fiscal management
penalty and of with federal
royalty from
natural
resources,
tourism fee
(including
from
Schedule
9(6 and 14))

5. State civil 5.1 Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
service and reform, and regulation relating to public
other administration
government 5.2 Provincial policy, law and_ regulation
services relating to state civil service and other

government service
5.3 Management of different services, groups

 

 

 

 

and_ sub-groups of state civil service and

 

93

 

 

other government services

 

5.4

Provincial policy, law, services, conditions
and standards, implementation and
regulation relating to state civil service and

other government service management

 

5.5

Human resource development and
management in state civil and other

government services

 

5.6

Management audit and service taker
satisfaction survey and monitoring of

service delivery in state level

 

5.7

Organization and management survey of

state level government agencies

 

5.8

Matters relating to state civil and other
government welfare and retired

Management

 

5.9

Capacity building and _— scholarship
management of state civil and other

government personnel

 

5.10

Provincial policy, standards and
standardization relating to trainings and
relation and coordination with training

Centre of national and state level

 

5.11

Record management of state level and

other government personals

 

5.12

Relation and coordination with federal
public service commission, — provincial
public service commission and other service

commission

 

5.13

Research and development relating to state

civil and other government services

 

5.14

Minimum standardization of public service

distribution in state level

 

 

 

 

 

5.15

 

State level service and government service

operation and management according to

 

94

 

 

policy and standards as decided by federal

government

 

5.16

Management of personals of civil service
and other government services adjusted

according to federal laws

 

5.17

Law relating to personnel and office
management of rural municipality and

municipalities

 

5.18

Policy, standards and implementation
relating to provincial inter governmental
service coordination, interrelation and

partnership

 

State

statistics

6.1

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

statistic

 

6.2

Statistic management of provincial level
according to the Nepal — standard

classification and standards

 

6.3

Survey of state level

 

6.4

Information system management of state

level statistics

 

6.5

Support, coordination and cooperation with

federal and local level relating to statistics

 

|

Provincial level statistic management

 

6.7

Provincial statistic record preservation and

Management

 

a

Provincial human resource development

and capacity development

 

 

 

State level
electricity,
irrigation

and ~_— water

7.1

International treaties and agreements

 

 

 

7.1.1

 

Provincial policy, law, standard, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

electricity, irrigation, drinking _ water,

 

95

 

 

 

 

supply
services,
navigation
(including
from 6(20),
7(13), 7(18),
and 9(5))

sanitation and hygiene/purity

 

7.1.2

Electricity, irrigation, water induced hazard
control of state level and formulation of
plan/master plan, identification of study,
construction, operation, maintenance and
management of projects relating to drinking

water, sanitation and hygiene/purity

 

7.1.3

Quality regulation of electricity distribution

and service

 

7.1.4

Operation, maintenance and management of
mega irrigation system and _ water
induced.....projects constructed by federal

and coordination with federal

 

7.1.5

Provincial river control and management

 

7.1.6

Determination of basic fee and charge of
electricity, irrigation, drinking water,

sanitation and purity services in state level

 

7.1.7

Coordination in inter service operation
relating to utilization of water resources of

the state

 

7.1.8

Policy, standard and regulation relating to
strengthening of private sector participation
in expansion of electricity, irrigation,

drinking water and sanitation services

 

7.1.9

Ensure the access of backward class/people
in drinking water, sanitation and purity

related matters

 

7.2

State boundary river and waterway

 

 

 

7.2.1

 

Project identification, study, study,
construction, operation, management and
regulation relating to water utilization of
state boundary river according to national

water resource policy, federal law, basin

 

96

 

 

plan

 

7.2.2

Feasibility study, operation and

management relating to internal waterways

 

7.3

Transportation

 

7.3.1

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

transportation

 

7.3.2

Motor vehicle registration and renewal,

driving license and renewal

 

7.3.3

Route permit of transport operation, quality
assurance, rent determination and regulation

within the state territory.

 

7.3.4

Promotion of environment friendly, climate
change adaption, disaster risk sensitive,
disable and gender friendly transportation

system

 

7.3.5

Planning and implementation relating to

transportation security in state level

 

7.3.6

Promotion, planning and project
implementation of ropeways, waterways
including alternative transportation

technology

 

 

 

State
universities,
higher
education,
libraries,

museums

8.1

State universities, higher education

 

8.1.1

Policy, law, administration, standards and
regulation relating to state level higher

education

 

8.1.2

Policy, law, administration, standards and

regulation relating to state universities

 

8.1.3

Standardization, permission and regulation

of education consultancy services

 

 

 

8.2

 

Library and museums

 

97

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.2.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
regulation relating to library in state level
8.2.2 Policy, law, standards, implementation and
regulation relating to museums in state level
2.1 Education sector
2.1.1 Provincial policy, law, standardization,
implementation and regulation of education
2.1.2 Provincial human resource projection and
formulation of education plan and
implementation
2.1.3 Preparation and production of school level
curriculum and course books in state level
2.1.4 Provincial policy curriculum and course
materials preparation, implementation and
regulation of technical education and
Education, vocational trainings
From sports and 2.1.5 Standardization and regulation of service
Schedule | newspapers conditions, qualification, capacity of school
9(2) level teachers in state level
2.1.6 Standardization and regulation of secondary
level teachers management
2.1.7 Examination management of class ten of
secondary level
2.1.8 Scholarship management of higher level
2.1.9 Provincial policy, standards and regulation
relating to technical education and
vocational trainings
2.1.10 Scholarship management of technical
education and vocational trainings
2.1.11 Academic research and education statistic
management in state level
० | Health 9.1 Provincial policy, law, quality standards,
services planning, implementation and regulation

 

 

 

 

 

98

 

 

relating to health service and nutrition

 

9.2

Promotional, preventive, counter acting,
curative, rehabilitative and palliative health
service management as needed in the state

level

 

9.3

Registration, operation, permission and
regulation of state level academic,
professional and occupational organizations

relating to health services

 

9.4

Quality assurance, registration, permission
for operation, management and regulation

of state level treatment centers and services

 

9.5

Quality standards, registration, permission
for operation and registration relating to
production of medicinal and _ health
technology materials, storage, maximum
retail price, final disposal according to the

national standards

 

P|

Agency wise cooperation and coordination

 

 

From
Schedule
9(3)

 

Health

3.1

Registration, permission for operation and
regulation of hospital and nursing house,
Nidan (Curing) centre and other health

institutions according to national standards

 

3.2

Quality monitoring and analysis model of
drinking water, food material, sound and air

and standard of quality and implementation

 

3.3

Implementation, surveillance and

monitoring of provincial programs

 

3.4

Management and regulation of health
insurance including health security

programs according to national standards

 

 

 

3.5

 

State level health sector human resource

development and management

 

99

 

 

3.6

Matters relating to pharma vigilance,
appropriate use of medicine and

antimicrobial resistance reduction

 

3.7

Procurement and supply management of
immunization and _ family planning
including quality sensitive medicine and

health materials

 

3.8

Determination of priority of research, study
and research and information delivery in the

state level

 

3.9

Institutional management of health
information system and health audit system

in the state level

 

3.10

State level public health surveillance

Management

 

3.11

State level standard and management
relating to Ayurveda and other vogue health

services

 

3.12

Standards, control and regulation of

tobacco, alcohol and intoxicant matters

 

3.13

Permission, operation and expansion of

cure centers and laboratory services

 

3.14

Public health emergency situation, disaster

in health sector and epidemic management

 

3.15

Communicable and non-communicable

disease control and prevention

 

3.16

Physical infrastructures development and
management relating to health service

according to national standards

 

3.17

Standardization, implementation and
regulation relating to health related solid

waste Management

 

 

 

 

 

3.18

 

Provincial buffer stock management of
medicine and medicine related materials for

emergency situation

 

100

 

 

 

3.19

Matters relating to Ayurveda, unani, amchi,
homeopathic, naturopathy including

traditional and health services management

 

 

3.20

Emergency health services delivery

 

 

10

 

Matters
relating ०
the State
Assembly,
State
Council ०

Ministers

10.1

Working procedure regulations approval

and implementation of state assembly

 

10.2

Approval, return back and certification of

bills submitted by state government

 

10.3

Matters relating to State Council of

Ministers

 

10.3.1

Formulation, approval, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of short term and
long term policy and strategy of state

government

 

10.3.2

Composition, dissolution and approval of
organizational structures of ministries and

work division of state government

 

10.3.3

Formulation and implementation of
business plan regulation of _ state

government

 

10.3.4

Care/monitor, control, inspection,
supervision, coordination, monitoring,
evaluation of functions of different

ministries under state level

 

10.3.5

Implementation and monitoring ४

decisions of state level ministers

 

10.3.6

Formulation, approval and apply of bills,
ordinance, rule and orders to be submitted

in state legislative

 

 

 

10.3.7

101

 

Social, political, economic and
administrative matters and law and order

within the state territory.

 

 

10.3.8

Functions relating to state administrative
reform, protection and strengthening of
human rights, management of good

governance and corruption control

 

10.3.9

Policy, planning, program, standardization
relating to social security and employment
within state and implementation

coordination with local governments

 

10.3.10

Facilitation in program implementation of
federal constitutional and other

commissions

 

10.3.11

Implementation of treaty, agreement and
consents adopted as_ bilateral and
multilateral level according to accepted

policy of federal governments

 

10.3.12

Direction, implementation and reporting of

state chief

 

10.3.13

Coordination in determination of centers,
management and conflict resolution of local

level

 

10.3.14

Interstate council and interstate

coordination

 

10.3.15

Operation, management and coordination of

district council

 

10.3.16

Functions relating to formulate policy and
law formation and operation relating to
constitutions and other commission’s
appointment, services and facilities of state

level

 

10.3.17

Functions related to coordination with

federal and local level special structures

 

 

 

 

 

10.3.18

 

Functions relating to participation decisions
implementation in inter-state coordination

committee

 

102

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.4 State Council

10.4.1 Formulation and implementation of
regulation relating to operation of state
council

10.4.2 Presentation, approval, return back and
certification of the bill

11.1 Intra-State Trade

11.1.1 Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
trade/commerce

11.1.2 Promotion, facilitation and regulation of
provincial trade

11.1.3 Construction, operation, support,
facilitation, coordination and regulation of
intra-state trade infrastructures

11.1.4 Transportation/transit system and cargo
management

11.1.5 Policy and law, standards, implementation

Intra-State
11 and regulation relating to control of
trade

syndicate, cartelling of trade and
competition

11.1.6 Trade relating to matters relating to
materials, services and intellectual property

11.1.7 Registration, renewal, dismissal and
regulation of commercial firms

11.1.8 Operation management reform and
regulation of state level public corporation,
committee, institutions and committees etc.

11.1.9 Coordination and cooperation with private
and non-government sector

11.1.10 | Statistic system and study research of

 

 

 

 

provincial trade

 

103

 

 

12

State

highways

6.1

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

state highways system

 

6.2

Determination of standard and base of roads

of state highways system

 

6.3

Master plan formulation of state highways,
standardization, implementation and

regulation

 

6.4

Maintenance and management of state

highways

 

6.5

Statistic management relating to state

highways

 

P|

Transport security management and

regulation of state highways

 

6.7

Management of maintenance fund for state

highway

 

o

State level study and research relating to
road __ technology and _institutional

development

 

 

13

 

State bureau
of

investigation

13.1

Collection, analysis, use and flow of
information relating to persons, thoughts
and activities the state public security

Management

 

13.2

Collection, analysis, use and flow of
information relating to against national

interest

 

13.3

Collection, analysis, use and flow of
information relating to any act jeopardizing
mutual courtesy, tolerance, unity between
different caste (ethnicity), language, culture

and community.

 

13.4

Analysis and reporting of  intra-state

political activities

 

 

 

13.5

 

Collection, analysis, use and _ flow

information of crime and activities existing

 

104

 

 

in international border region

 

13.6

Collection, analysis, use and flow of
information of activities jeopardizing the

interstate relation

 

13.7

Collection, analysis and flow of information
relating to human trafficking and drugs

transaction

 

13.8

Report preparation of received information

with analysis

 

 

14

 

Physical
management
and other
necessary
matters _ of
State
government
al offices

(14)

14.1

Physical management of state

governmental offices

 

14.1.1

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
physical management of governmental

offices

 

14.2

Other necessary matters

 

14.2.1

Plan formulation of intra-state urban
development, construction, operation and
maintenance of urban infrastructures and
implementation and guidance relating to

housing and building projects

 

14.2.2

Construction adjunction and coordination of

state governmental offices

 

14.2.3

Promotion of  intra-state appropriate

building construction technology

 

14.2.4

Implementation and regulation of national

building code in state level

 

14.2.5

Construction of personal housing, hospitals

and schools

 

 

 

14.2.6

 

Policy, standards, planning and
implementation relating to housing targeted
to the citizens in the verge of extinction,

marginalized, poor and senior citizens

 

105

 

 

14.2.7

Matters relating to provincial capital and
inter local urban development, plan
formulation, coordination and infrastructure

construction

 

15

State Public
Service

Commission

15.1

Act formulation, implementation relating to

state public service commission

 

15.2

Formation of act, relating to formation,
services, facilities and implementation and
supply of necessary physical manpower and

other resources

 

 

16

 

Managemen
t of lands,

land records

16.1

Provincial policy, law, standards
implementation and regulation relating to

land and land use

 

16.2

Provincial policy, law, standards,
implementation and regulation relating to
land management, land administration and

land measurement

 

16.3

Provincial record management of private

governmental and public lands

 

16.4

Policy and determination of standards
relating to land registration, transfer of

ownership and ownership handover

 

16.5

Maps, geographical information and record
management received form federal

government

 

16.6

Establishment of network of cadastral

measurement control point

 

16.7

Intra-state measurement and record

 

16.8

Standards and implementation relating to

cadastral survey and land inventory

 

16.9

Matters relating to land use, land reform

and integration of land (Chaklabandhi)

 

 

 

16.10

 

Provincial policy, law, standard, planning,

implementation and regulation relating to

 

106

 

 

landless dalits, landless, freed bounded
labors, agriculture and livestock workers

and haliaetc

 

16.11

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
landless, freed bonded labors,  dalits,
landless, agriculture and livestock worker,

halia

 

16.12

Inventory relating to monuments listed in
world heritage list and archeologically

important and forest, wetlands, costal land.

 

16.13

Land acquisition, determination ४
compensation 110 coordination § in
distribution and facilitation for

governmental purpose

 

16.14

Solution of land disputes

 

16.15

Determination of standards relating to

distribution of land ownership certificate

 

16.16

Implementation of policy to end the dual

ownership of land

 

16.17

Policy implementation relating to safety

habitation and land pulling

 

 

17

 

Exploration
and
management

of mines

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

exploration of mines and minerals

 

Survey, exploration and exhavation and
management except simply constructing
mines and materials and within the

responsible area of the federation

 

 

 

 

Registration, permission, renewal, dismissal
and regulation except simply constructing
mine and minerals and within the

responsibility of the federation

 

107

 

 

17.4

Inventory collection and documentation of

mines and minerals related materials

 

17.5

Matters relating to geographical study,

research and map

 

17.6

Establishment and cooperation of provincial
laboratory relating to resources and

excavation of mines and minerals

 

17.7

Plan implementation of physical
infrastructures development relating to

industry and minerals

 

 

18

 

Protection
and use of
languages,
scripts,
cultures,
fine arts and
Religions
(Including
from
Schedule
9(12))

18.1

Protection and use of languages, scripts,

cultures, fine arts and Religions

 

18.1.1

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
protection and use of language, scripts,

culture, fine arts and religions

 

18.1.2

Protection, promotion, khoj, research and
management of language, scripts, cultures,
fine arts including religious heritage of state

level

 

18.1.3

Protection, maintenance, study, research
and management of state level palaces
having importance with historical, religious,

cultural and arts and agricultures

 

18.1.4

Establishment, operation and management

of museums in provincial level

 

18.1.5

Management of religious and cultural

heritage importance to the state

 

18.1.6

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
state level archeological palaces and

historical cultural heritage

 

 

 

18.1.7

 

Protection, maintenance, study, research,
exhalation and reconstruction of state level

historical archaeological palaces १0

 

108

 

 

historical cultural heritage

 

18.1.8

Organizations and _ interstate contact,
support and coordination relating to
archaeological, cultural heritage, traditional

religions

 

 

19

 

Use of
forests and
waters and
management
of
environment
within the
State
(Including
from

Schedule
9(7))

19.1

National forest within the state

 

19.1.1

Policy, law, standards, planning and

regulation of forest sector in state level

 

19.1.2

Regulation and crime control relating to
trafficking of human, animals and forest

products in state level

 

19.1.3

Provincial museum management relating to

forest, vegetation, animal and biodiversity

 

19.1.4

Management of protected areas and pasture

land areas in state level

 

19.1.5

Management of stable for elephants and the

ZOO

 

19.1.6

Policy, law and regulation relating to
promotion, expansion of herbal farming

technology and marketing

 

19.1.7

Study १10 research. relating 1०
pharmacological study of herbal related
plants and microbial activity of herbal

related product and PRA database

 

19.1.8

Technical information and service delivery

in forest and environment matters

 

19.1.9

Policy, coordination and cooperation
relating to forest encroachment and forest

fire control and prevention

 

 

 

19.1.10

 

Policy and management relating to
botanical gardens and herbarium
management and vegetation identification

and documentation in state level

 

109

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

19.2 Use of water

19.2.1 Formulation of plan, master plan, and
implementation, monitoring and evaluation
relating to electricity, drinking water,
sanitation, purity, and irrigation to be
included in water resources central master
plan within the state

19.2.2 Study, survey, preparation, implementation
and monitoring of projects utilizing the
water resources within the state

19.3 Environment management

19.3.1 In situ, ex situ protection and bonus
distribution of bio-diversity in the state
level

19.3.2 Matters relating to watershed protection and
water utilization policy, technology
development, management

19.3.3 Land erosion within state

19.3.4 Policy, technology development and
management relating to environmental
protection and purity in state level

19.4 Water and weather science

19.4.1 Weather and water measurement
networking management

19.4.2 Weather TV studio management

19.4.3 Laboratory management relating to water
quality and wind quality

19.4.4 Study, research, development १0

 

regulation of bio-technology

 

110

 

 

 

20

 

Agriculture
and
livestock
development
, factories,
industrializa
tion trade,
business,
transportatio

n

20.1

Agriculture and livestock development

 

20.1.1

Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
agriculture, livestock development and food

nutrition

 

20.1.2

Agriculture and livestock related diseases,

insects and epidemic control

 

20.1.3

Matters relating to agricultural
industrialization, development of livestock

related industry occupation and promotion

 

20.1.4

Matters relating to agriculture and livestock
mechanization and development ४

developed equipments and expansion

 

20.1.5

Registration, permission, renewal, dismissal
and regulation of parabhet according to

national policy and state

 

20.1.6

Management and regulation of curing
laboratory for agriculture and livestock

diseases

 

20.1.7

Quality determination and regulation of
agriculture product, livestock, livestock
related materials and animal product

materials

 

20.1.8

Affiliation, standardization, determination
of quality and certification of agricultural

materials, services and technology

 

20.1.9

Quality control and regulation relating to

seed and breeding

 

20.1.10

Provincial policy, law, and _ regulation

relating to grazing land and barren field

 

20.1.11

Matters relating to provincial food security,

food rights and food sovereignty

 

 

 

20.1.12

 

Matters relating to agriculture related

provincial statistic system, study, research,

 

111

 

 

source protection, development and

expansion and common agriculture system

 

20.1.13

Study, research, development १0
promotion relating to agriculture, and

livestock related and food technology

 

20.1.14

Matters relating to agriculture fertilizer,
seeds and pesticides supply management

and regulation

 

20.1.15

Development and management ४
provincial laboratory relating to agriculture

livestock and food

 

20.1.16

Matters relating to agriculture extension,
farmer training and capacity development

and empowerment

 

20.1.17

Minimum price’ implementation ४

agricultural products

 

20.1.18

Planning and implementation relating to

agriculture and livestock insurance

 

20.1.19

Matters relating to agriculture market and

infrastructure development and operation

 

20.1.20

Development and management ४

agriculture firm Centre

 

20.2

Factories, industrialization, trade

business

 

20.2.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

factories and industrialization

 

20.2.2

Matters relating to  industrialization

business promotion and regulation

 

20.2.3

Matters relating to industry registration,
permission, renewal, dismissal and

regulation

 

 

 

 

 

20.2.4

 

Establishment and expansion of industrial
sector and special economic sector of state

level

 

112

 

 

20.2.5

Planning and implementation relating to

industrial physical infrastructures

development

 

20.2.6

Matters relating to industrial development

and promotion

 

20.2.7

Matters relating to industrial material export

promotion

 

20.2.8

Development, industrial | development,
promotion and regulation of provincial

public corporation

 

21.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

trust (Guthi) land management

 

21.2

Managemen

21 t ० trust

Protection and record management of lands
and properties belonging under public trust

(Guthi)

 

21.3
(Guthi)

Cooperation and coordination with federal
government, state and local level in the

context of trust land and trust management

 

21.4

 

 

 

 

Management of various processions and
festivals having conducted under the trust

(Guthi) traditionally

 

 

Detailing of Concurrent Power as Provisioned in Schedule 7 of Constitution

 

 

Civil and 1.1
criminal
procedure,
evidence and
1 oaths (legal
recognition,
public १०७

and records,

 

 

 

and __ judicial

 

Implementation of criminal and _ civil

procedures

 

113

 

 

proceedings)

 

Supply,
distribution,
price control,
quality and
monitoring of
essential
goods and

services

2.1

Policy, law, standards, implementation
and regulation relating to supply of

necessary goods and services

 

2.1.1

Matters relating to consumer right
protection and promotions, users awareness

programs implementation and monitoring

 

2.1.2

Matters relating to market monitoring and

regulation

 

2.1.3

Matters relating to control and regulation of

price, black market and hoarding

 

2.1.4

Quality testing and regulation according to

national standards

 

2.1.5

Supply management and regulation of
public services and goods and essential

services and goods

 

2.1.6

Matters relating to users court formation

and operation

 

2.1.7

Management of provincial buffer stock of

essential goods

 

2.1.8

Provincial price grants and regulation in
goods and services for targeted areas and

class

 

2.1.9

Coordination between interstate and local

level in supply of essential goods

 

2.1.10

Information collection, analysis, projection
and supply management relating to demand
and supply of essential goods and services

in state level

 

 

 

Preventive
detention for
reasons

connected

3.1

Management of peace, security and order

 

 

 

3.1.1

 

Maintain peace and order

 

114

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3.1.2 Prevention and investigation of crimes
except the responsible areas of Nepal police
3.1.3 Information collection, analysis, use, flow
and reporting relating to crime
3.1.4 Operation, management and coordination of
local administration
3.1.5 Implementation relating to preventive
with the . o.
detention and place limitation (sthanhaad)
security of Funai - - -
3.1.6 unctions relating to prison and detention
the
Management (construction, maintenance,
country, . .
operation, management, security and
prison and . . .
detainees and prisoners, human _ right
detention . १
protection and promotion
m
Transfer of 4.1 Coordination with inter-state and federation
accused
persons,
detainees and
prisoners
from one
State to
another State
Laws relating 5.1 Policy, law, standards, implementation and

to family
affairs
(marriage,
transfer _ of
property,
divorce,
persons on
the verge of
extinction,
orphan,
adoption,

succession

 

 

 

regulation relating to family affairs
(marriage, transfer of property, divorce,
persons on the verge of extinction, orphan,
adoption, succession and

joint family)

 

115

 

 

and

joint family)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Acquisition, 6.1 Provincial policy, law, implementation and
requisitioning regulation relating to acquisition,
of property requisitioning of property and creation of
and creation right in property
of right in
property
7.1 Provincial policy, law, standards,
Contracts, implementation and regulation relating to
cooperatives, contracts, cooperatives, partnership and
partnership agency relating matters
and agency 7.3 Policy, law formulation, management and
relating regulation relating to partnership and
matters agency firms
7.4 Implementation and promotion of
agriculture contract farming
Matters 8.1 Policy and law formulation, implementation
relating to and regulation relating to establishment of
bankruptcy company coordinating with the federal
and 8.2 Policy, law, standards formulation,
insolvency implementation and regulation relating to
management of insolvent industries, p.......
Drugs and 9.1 Provincial policy, _law, standards,
pesticides implementation and regulation relating to
use of drugs and pesticides
9.2 Permission and regulation relating of sale
and distribution according to the pesticides
standards
9.3 Standard implementation of agriculture

 

 

 

related micro nutritional goods and

pesticides

 

116

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9.4 Production and regulation of livestock
medicine
9.5 Monitoring and control of production, sale
and use of pesticides
10.1 Planning
10.1.1 Sectoral project formulation,
implementation and monitoring and
evaluation of the state projects
10.1.2 Monitoring and evaluation of state level
project.
10.2 Family planning § and_ population
management
10.2.1 Provincial policy, law, planning,
Planning, implementation and regulation relating to
family population and family planning
10 planning and 10.2.2 Study and research relating to demography
population and demographic analysis
management 10.2.3 Migration management in state level
10.2.4 Population pressure indicators and profile in
state level
10.2.5 Capacity building relating to population in
state level
10.2.6 Relation and coordination with national and
provincial organization related 1०
population
10.2.7 Establishment and operation of population
information system in the state level
11 Social 11.1 Social Security
security and
employment, 11.1.1 Provincial policy, law, standards and
trade unions, regulation relating to social security
settlement of 11.1.2 Management and regulation of social

 

industrial

 

 

 

security fund

 

117

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.1.3 Relation, coordination and cooperation with
national and provincial agencies and
organizations relating to social security

11.2 Matters relating to employment, trade
union, solution of industrial dispute,
labor rights and disputes

11.2.1 Provincial policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to employment
promotion

11.2.2 Provincial policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to employment
promotion

disputes, 11.2.3 Provincial policy, law, standards and

labour rights regulation relating to labor and _ social

and_ disputes security of labor

relating 11.2.4 Policy, law and regulation relating to trade

matters union

(including 11.2.5 Study, research and labor force planning

matters from relating to labor force and market

9(10)) 11.2.6 Matters relating to industrial dispute
solution, labor relation and __ legal
observation

11.2.7 Matters relating to security of workplace,
factory inspection and regulation

12 Legal 12 Matters relating to legal profession,
profession, auditing, engineering, medicines, Ayurved
auditing, medicines, veterinary, Amchi and other
engineering, professions
medicines, 12.1 Occupational/professional permission
Ayurved according to standards and classification
medicines, determined by federation
veterinary,

Amchi 10
other

 

118

 

 

 

 

| rofessions _
tate

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.1 State boundary river and waterways
boundary (included in Schedule 6(7))
river,
waterways,
13 environment
protection,
biological
diversity
13.2 Environment protection and _ biological
diversity
13.2.1 Policy, law, standards, planning
formulation, implementation and regulation
relating to environment in state level
13.2.2 Establishment of environment information
system in state level
13.2.3 Preparation and recue for environmental
risk in state level
13.2.4 Environmental laboratory in state level
13.2.5 Determination of standards,
implementation, monitoring and control of
solid, air, water, sound including electricity
pollution in state level
13.2.6 Regulation and management of
harmful/toxic materials in state level
13.2.7 Quality monitoring of fuel in state level
13.2.8 Promotion of minimum carbon oriented and
environment friendly development process
and green areas in state level
13.2.9 Protection, promotion of environmental

 

 

 

 

protected areas and natural resources in

state level

 

119

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13.2.10 | Study, research, capacity building,
environment governance and audit within
the state

14.1 Industries, business and company
administration (included in Schedule 6(17))

Matters
. 14.2 Monitoring of journalist code of conduct
relating to
means of - - -
14 14.3 Matters relating to press information flow,
communicati . . . .
production of information materials,
on
publication and distribution
14.4 Monitoring the minimum salary of working
journalists
Industries and 15.1 Industries, business and company
15 mines and administration (Included in Schedule 6(17))
physical
infrastructure
5
Casino, 16.1 Registration, permission and _ regulation
16 lottery relating to casino and lottery according to
federal law

17.1 Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,

implementation and regulation relating to
Early
early preparedness for, rescue, relief and
preparedness
rehabilitation from, natural
for, rescue,
and man-made calamities
relief and
=>. 17.2 Pre-storage and management of search,
rehabilitation
17 rescue and relief materials with disaster
from, natural
preparedness
and man-
17.3 Identification and relocation of settlements
made
. and mapping disaster risk areas
calamities

17.4 Matters relating to establishment of
provincial disaster fund and operation and
support in local disaster fund

 

 

 

 

 

120

 

 

17.5

Provincial projects, implementation and

regulation of disaster risk reduction

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17.6 State level rehabilitation and reconstruction
of post disaster
17.7 Support and coordination in disaster
preparedness and response, risk reduction,
rehabilitation and reconstruction at local
level
17.8 Provincial emergency operation system
17.9 Disaster preparedness and response plan
17.10 Statistic management and study, research
relating to disaster of state level
17.11 Matters relating to disaster management
coordination and mobilization
18.1 Tourism
18.1.1 Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation of provincial
tourism development
18.1.2 Registration, permission and renewal of
travel and trekking agency
18.1.3 Promotion of provincial tourism
Tourism,
water supply
18 18.1.4 Development of provincial tourism
and sanitation
infrastructures
18.1.5 Management of tourist police
18.1.6 Promotion, registration, permission,
renewal and regulation of tourist hotels,
resorts, lodges, travel guide, rafting etc.
18.2 Drinking water and sanitation
18.2.1 Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,

 

 

 

 

 

121

 

 

implementation and regulation relating to

drinking water and purity

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

18.2.2 Formulation of plan and master plan,
identification of projects, study,
construction, operation, maintenance,
management, quality and regulation relating
to drinking water, sanitation and purity

18.2.3 Criteria formation of drinking water and
sanitation fee charge in state level

18.2.4 Policy, standards and regulation relating to
promotion of private sector in expansion of
drinking water and sanitation

18.2.5 Ensure the access of backward people in
drinking water, sanitation and purity

19.1 Motion pictures, cinema halls

19.1.1 Permission and regulation to operate the
motion picture hall

19.1.2 Permission and regulation of motion picture
making and demonstration

19.2 Sports

Motion 19.2.1 Provincial policy, law, standards,
pictures, implementation and regulation relating to
19 cinema halls sports
and sports 19.2.2 Coordination and regulation of sport
administration and organizations

19.2.3 Sport development and promotion in state
level

19.2.4 Organize and participation in national and
provincial sport

19.2.5 State level sport programs operation

19.2.6 Provincial infrastructure development

 

 

 

 

relating to sport

 

122

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Insurance 20.1 Operation, management and regulation of
business insurance and insurance management

20 operation and
management

20.2 Promotion and expansion of insurance

business
Poverty 21.1 Poverty alleviation
alleviation
and
industrializati
21 on (Including
from
Schedule
7(21) and
9(10))

21.1.1 Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation, regulation and _ study
research relating to poverty alleviation

21.1.2 Provincial survey, information management
and regulation relating to identification of
poor households

21.1.3 Management relating to social security and
protection for identified poor households

21.1.4 Relation, coordination and cooperation with
national and international organizations

21.2 Industrialization

21.2.1 Establishment management and operation
of industrialization sector and_ special
economic sector in state level

21.2.2 Policy, law, standards, implementation and

 

 

 

 

regulation relating to industries and small,

medium, domestic and micro industries

 

123

 

 

establishment and promotion within state

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

21.2.3 Organize and management of industries and
trade exhibitions
21.2.4 Use of labor related technology in industry
and inland labor
22.1 Development and expansion of science and
technology in state level
Scientific 22.2 Human resource development and
research, utilization relating to science and
science and technology in state level
22 technology 22.3 Data collection, processing and survey of
and human science and technology matters in state
resources level
development 22.4 Invention, progress and development of
scientific study research and science and
technology
23.1 Forest area
23.1.1 Identification, classification, protection and
management of landscape areas and forest
Utilization of areas
forests, 23.1.2 Preparation, management plan and program
mountains, implementation
forest 23.1.3 Matters relating to sustainable management
conservation distribution and monitoring and evaluation
23 areas and 23.1.4 Matters relating to conservation areas
waters identification and determination ४
stretching in managerial system
inter-State 23.1.5 Matters relating to management plan
form preparation, implementation participatory
system identification
23.1.6 Matters relating to preservation, livelihood
and environmental program operation
23.1.7 Matters relating to inter-state river reclaim

 

 

 

 

and road side plantation management

 

124

 

 

 

23.1.8

Establishment and management of Breeding
Seed Orchards (BSOs) for plantation
through production of qualitative seeds and

grown with sustainability

 

 

 

23.2 Implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of provincial plan relating to water resource
Land policies 24.1
and laws
24 Included in Schedule 6(16)
relating
thereto
Employment 25.1 Entrepreneurship development, _ training,
and soft loan facility, and assistance on business
unemployme promotion for self-employment
nt aid
25
(Included
from
Schedule
7(11))

 

 

 

 

 

 

Detailing of concurrent powers of Federation, State and Local Level in the Schedule 9 of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

constitution
Cooperatives 1.1 Included in Schedule 6(2)
1
Education, Included in Schedule 6(8), 7(19), 7(14)
2
health and
newspapers
3 Included in Schedule 6(9)
3 Health
4 Included in Schedule 6(20)
4 Agriculture
5 Services 5 Included in Schedule 6(7)
such as
electricity,

 

125

 

 

water

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

supply,
irrigation
Service fee, 6.1 Included in Schedule 6(4)
charge,
penalty and
7 royalty from
natural
resources,
tourism fee
7.1 Forest areas
Forests,
7.1.1 Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
wildlife,
relating to plantation and maintenance in
birds, water
public open space land, barren land
uses,
7 (nangapakhaharu) and degraded forest areas
environment,
7.1.2 Management relating to herbals and other
ecology and
non- timber (gairkastha) forest products
Bio-diversity
within the state
7.1.3 Provincial policy, law, standards and
regulation relating to wildlife and birds
Mines and - Included in Schedule 6(17) and 7(15)
nS minerals
9 Disaster P| Included in Schedule 7(17)
Management
Social 10 Included in Schedule 7(21)
security and
10 poverty
alleviation
Personal 11.1 Record management of state level
11 events,
births,
deaths,

 

 

 

 

126

 

 

marriages

and statistics

 

 

 

 

 

 

Archaeology 12 Culture sector
5 ancient
monuments 12.1 Included in Schedule 6(18)
12
and
museums
13.1 Provincial policy, law, standards,
implementation and regulation relating to
Landless
landless squatters management
squatters
13 13.2 Matters relating to settlement of the land
management
squatters in the state level and management
of livelihood and coordination with local
level
Royalty from 14 Included in Schedule 6(4)
14 natural
resources
Motor 15 Management and regulation of provincial
15 vehicle transportation services
permits

 

 

 

 

 

 

Detailing of the function provisioned in the article of fundamental rights and directive

principles of state and other articles of the constitution

 

 

 

 

Organization 1 Registration of unions and associations

registration/r

egistration of 1.1 Registration of unions and _ associations,
1 unions and renewal and monitoring

associations

qa part

correction)
2 Rehabilitatio 2 Rehabilitation of victim of crime

 

n of victim

 

 

 

 

127

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of crime (1* 2.1 Implementation of function relating to
part crime victim rehabilitation
correction)
Compensatio 5 Compensation to the crime, torture victim
n 10 the
crime, 5.1 Implementation of the functions relating to
torture and compensation to the crime, torture victim
exploitation
victim
P| Matters relating to women
6.1 Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
women rights
6.2 Policy and implementation of action plan
relating to women violence, human
trafficking and transportation
Women 6.3 Implementation of international treaty and
rights agreement and commitments relating to
women and gender violence
6.4 Study research relating to women
empowerment and gender equality
6.5 Preventive, promotional, protection means
and rehabilitation for gender violence
alleviation
| Matters relating to gender sensitive budget
and auditing
7 Protection of child rights
7.1 Provincial policy, law, standards, planning,
Protection of
implementation and regulation relating to
child rights
protection of child rights
7.2 Study research relating to children

 

 

 

 

128

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.3 Management of emergency child rescue
fund in state level
7.4 Child care/reform and rehabilitation of state
level
7.5 Child friendly governance management and
service delivery
P| Protection of consumer rights
Protection of
Po consumer
; 8.1 Monitoring and coordination relating to
rights protection of consumer rights
P| Youth sector
9.1 Encourage to youth scientists
|. Youth sector
9.2 Provincial policy, law, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
youth
Titles, 10 Titles, honors and decorations related
honors and matters
10 decorations 10.1 Recommendation of titles, honors and
related decorations
matters
11 Treaties or agreement
11.1 Policy implementation relating ०
Treaties or
11 international treaties and agreements
agreement
11.2 Matter relating to economic and industrial
matters contract related agreements with the
consent of Nepal Government
12 Personnel adjustment
Personnel 12.1 Policy, standards, plan formulation and
12 adjustments implementation relating to adjustment in

 

 

 

 

local level of the presently working

personnel in local bodies

 

129

 

 

13

 

Water supply

 

 

13

 

Availability of pure drinking water to

general public

 

 

Detailing of functions provisioned in work division regulation and other laws

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Public 1.1 Management of provincial public holiday
holiday festivals and order for presence (urdi) etc.
festivals and
! order for
presence
(urdi) etc.
Relating to 2.1 Cooperation and coordination in the
2 election election works
3 Functions related to culture
Functions 3.1 Policy, law and regulation relating to
3 related to development of culture
culture 3.2 Matters relating to examination and
permission of archaeological goods that are
exported
y Matters relating to social welfare and
organizations
Matters 4.1 Functions of the organization relating to
relating 1० social welfare in state level
4 social 4.2 Monitoring and evaluation of the functions
welfare and relating to senior citizens, disabled person
organizations and incapable, children and women
4.3 Monitoring and evaluation of the function
relating to social welfare and organizations
5. Peace and reconstruction sector
Peace and
5 reconstructio
5.1 Matters relating to sustainable peace
n sector

 

 

 

 

management in state level

 

130

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5.2 Matters relating to rehabilitation of conflict
victims and displaced person in state level
5.3 Matters relating to truth observation and

 

reconciliation and  missed/disappeared

persons

 

4.3 Unbundling/Detailing of the Rights and the Functions of the local level

 

Unbundling/Detailing of the Exclusive Local Level Power (Schedule-8 of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Constitution)
Matters of
Schedule | the List of
Detailing of the List of Power of the Constitution
S. no. Constitutio
nal Power
1 Town police 1.1. Support implementation of policy, law,
standards, decision formulated and operated
by the local government
1.2 Property protection of local government
1.3 Support in management of ceremonies,
traditions, procession, festivals etc in local
level
1.4 Support in management of local market
parking spots
1.5 Functions according to policies, plans,
program relating to town rural police
decided by local town executive
1.6 Implementation of standards, enquiry on

fault and investigation relating to town

sanitation according to local laws

 

131

 

 

 

 

1.7

Support in implementation of order and
judgments decided by local judicial

committee

 

1.8

Matters relating to protection and security
of office premises, monuments, public,
unused public land (Ailani), barren open
land (Partijagga), public buildings and

physical infrastructures of local level

 

1.9

Support in disaster management

 

1.10

Support in crime control and investigation

 

 

1.11

Operation and management of town police
policy, law, standards, implementation and

regulation under federal and state laws

 

 

 

Cooperative

institutions

2.1

Local policy, laws, standards,
implementation and regulation relating to

cooperative institutions

 

2.2

Registration, permission, dismissal and

dissolution of local cooperative institutions

 

2.3

Local standards, regulation relating to

cooperative saving and credit mobilization

 

2.4

Coordination and cooperation with national,
central, sectoral, provincial and _ local

institutions relating to cooperatives

 

2.5

Local statistic management and _ study

research relating to cooperative

 

2.6

Capacity building relating to local

cooperative

 

2.7

Promotion and mobilization of local

cooperative sector

 

 

 

2.8

132

 

Promotion and development of cooperative

institutions

 

 

Operation of

3.1

Operation, permission, renewal and

regulation of FM radio up to 100 watt

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EM 3.2 Permission, renewal and regulation of
internet services, tele-centres and local
cable and wireless television broadcasting

4.1 Local policy, law, standards,
implementation and regulation relating to
financial procedures

4.2 Matters relating to budget ceiling

Local taxes
determination, formulation, implementation

(wealth tax,
and regulation

house rent

4.3 Matters relating to local consolidated fund

tax, land and
management
building
र, 4.4 Matters relating to financial administration
registration
and management

fee, motor

45 Management of investment and bonus of

vehicle tax),
local level

service

4.6 Matters relating to appropriation, revenue,

charge, fee,

deposit,, operational fund and integrated
tourism fee,

statement, account and audit of local level
advertiseme

4.7 Policy, law, standards, implementation,

nt tax,

distribution, collection and_ regulation
business tax,

relating to property taxes, houses rent tax,
land tax

od house and land registration fee, motor

an
( vehicle tax, service fee charge, tourism
revenue),
royalty, advertisement tax, business tax,
penalty,

land tax (land revenue, penalty,
entertainme

entertainment tax, land revenue, rent and
nt tax, land

tenancy, land and house tax, tax on bone,
revenue

horns, wing, leather of dead animals,
collection

natural resources and business tax

4.8 Fee determination, collection and

 

 

 

management in local infrastructures and

services

 

133

 

 

4.9

Trekking, kayaking, canoeing, and rafting

fee

 

4.10

Encouragement for local revenue promotion

 

4.11

Exchange of revenue information and

statistic

 

4.12

Policy, law, standards and _ regulation

relating to revenue control in local level

 

4.13

Policy, law, standards and _ regulation
relating to service fee charge in local

infrastructures service and fee

 

Managemen
t of the
Local

services

5.1

Policy, standards, service conditions,
planning, implementation and regulation

relating to local service management

 

5.2

Composition, operation and management of
local service according to the law and
necessity based on financial resources after
the adjustment of employees considering

the article 302 of the constitution

 

5.3

Matters relating to organizational
development of local level manpower

management and career development

 

5.4

Management, use and coordination of
employees having adjustment in local level
from central government under transitional

Management

 

5.5

Determination of organizational structures
an depositions of employees of local level

according to the law

 

5.6

Use, promotion and_ regulation § of
information and communication technology

in the management of local service

 

 

 

Collection

of local

 

 

6.1

 

Policy, law, standards, planning,

implementation relating to local statistic

 

134

 

 

statistics and
records
(including
from
Schedule
9(11))

6.2

Collection and management of local level
basic statistic including _ statistic of

unemployment

 

6.3

Registration management

 

6.4

Statistical record management of local level

 

6.5

Technical information and communication

statistic management in local level

 

 

 

Local level
development
plans and

projects

7.1

Formulation, implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of necessary plan and
projects for economical, social, cultural,
environmental technology and

infrastructure related development

 

7.2

Matters relating to study, research, project

impact evaluation

 

7.3

Preparation of profile of feasible natural

resources, means of local level

 

7.4

Policy, law, standards, planning an d
regulation relating to development plan and

projects of local level

 

7.5

Policy, law, standards and plan formulation,
project identification study, implementation
and regulation of local level relating to
urban development , settlement

development and building

 

7.6

Building construction, permit and
regulation according to national building

code and standards

 

7.7

Construction and maintenance of
government buildings, schools, community
buildings, cityhalls and other public

building structures of local level

 

 

 

7.8

 

Coordination, facilitation and cooperation

in implementation of federal and provincial

 

135

 

 

plans and projects

 

 

 

Basic and
secondary

education

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.1 Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
primary child education and_ school
education, informal education, open and
alternative (Gurukul, Madarasa, Gumbaetc)
and prolonged learning and _= special
education

8.2 Plan formulation, operation permission and
regulation of technical education and
vocational training

8.3 Distribution and implementation of
curriculum and teaching material

8.4 Management of school teachers and
employees

8.5 Materials relating to school mapping,
permission of schools, adjustments and
regulation

a Construction and maintenance of
educational infrastructures

8.7 Examination management of basic level
(Class 8)

8.8 Matters relating to student learning
achievement test and management

Pe Management of students encouragement
and scholarships

8.10 Permission and regulation of educational
consultancy services

8.11 Protection and standardization _— of
educational knowledge, — skills and
technology of local level

8.12 Operation and management of local library
and reading rooms

8.13 Coordination and regulation of educational

 

progress of secondary level

 

136

 

 

Basic health
and

sanitation

9.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

basic health and sanitation

 

9.2

Operation and promotion of basic health

services

 

9.3

Establishment and operation of hospitals

and other health institutions

 

9.4

Physical infrastructures development and

management relating to health services

 

9.5

Matters relating to healthy drinking water
and quality of food materials and air and

sound pollution control

 

P|

Management of sanitation awareness

program and health related waste

 

9.7

Collection, reuse, processing, disposal,
determination of service fee and regulation

of health related soli waste

 

a

Matters relating to blood circulation

service, local and urban health service

 

Pe

Matters relating to medical shop operation

and regulation

 

 

From
Schedule
9(3)

 

Health

3.1

Target and quality determination of local
level according to the nation and provincial

target and standards

 

3.2

Clinic registration, operation, permission
and regulation of general hospitals, nursing
homes, observation centres and other health

institutions

 

3.4

Production, processing and distribution of
medicine related vegetation, herbs and other

medicine related materials

 

 

 

3.5

 

Social security program management

including health insurance

 

137

 

 

3.6

Minimum price determination and
regulation of medicine and other medical

products in local level

 

3.7

Appropriate use of medicine and
antimicrobial resistance reduction in local

level

 

3.8

Procurement, storage and distribution of
medicine and health equipments in local

level

 

3.9

Health system management in local level

 

3.10

Public health surveillance in local level

 

3.11

Operation of promotional, preventive,
curative, rehabilitative and palliative health

services of local level

 

3.12

Promotion of public health including
healthy lifestyle, nutrition, physical
exercise, yoga, adoption of health circle,

panchakarma

 

3.13

Control and management of zoonotic and

insects related diseases

 

3.14

Control in use and awareness promotion of
tobacco, alcohol, and drugs related

substances

 

3.15

Management of traditional health treatment
services including ayurvedic, unani, amchi,

homeopathy and naturopathy

 

3.16

Control plan and implementation of public
emergency health, epidemic control in local

level

 

 

 

 

 

3.17

 

Control and prevention of communicable
and non-communicable disease in local

level

 

138

 

 

3.18

Matters relating to emergency health

services delivery

 

 

10

 

Local
market
management
,environmen
t protection
and bio-

diversity

10.1

Local market management

 

10.1.1

Policy, law, standards, implementation and
regulation relating to local trade/commerce,
demand/supply, market management and

monitoring consumer rights and interest

 

10.1.2

Management of local market and market

day (Haatbajar)

 

10.1.3

Production, supply and export projection,
price determination and monitoring of local

materials

 

10.1.4

Infrastructures relating to local

trade/commerce

 

10.1.5

Monitoring and regulation of price and

quality of local materials service trade

 

10.1.6

Registration, permission, renewal, dismissal
and regulation of local level commercial

firms

 

10.1.7

Statistic system and study research of local

trade

 

10.1.8

Coordination and cooperation with private

and non-governmental sectors

 

10.1.9

Promotion, facilitation and regulation of

local trade

 

10.1.10

Protection, promotion and documentation

of local intellectual property

 

10.1.11

Matters relating to promotion of consumer
awareness, record management of targeted
consumers and quality test of local

materials and services

 

 

 

10.2

 

Environmental protection and_bio-

diversity

 

139

 

 

10.2.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
local environment protection and_bio-

diversity

 

10.2.2

Environmental risk reduction in local level

 

10.2.3

Pollution control and regulation and
management of harmful materials in local

level

 

10.2.4

Sanitation and solid waste management in

local level

 

10.2.5

Minimum carbon related and environment

friendly development in local level

 

10.2.6

Green areas production in local level

 

10.2.7

Determination of environment protection

areas and management in local level

 

 

11

 

Local roads,
rural _ roads,
agro-roads,

irrigation

11.1

Policy, law, standards, plans,
implementation and regulation relating to
local roads, rural roads, agro roads and

irrigation

 

11.2

Formulation of master plan of local level,
identification of construction and
maintenance projects, study,
implementation, maintenance, regulation
relating to local roads, rural roads, agro
roads, suspension bridge, bridge, culvert

irrigation and embarkement/dam

 

11.3

Policy, standards, planning, implementation
and regulation relating of medium scale,
mass transit system, trolley bus and trams in

local level

 

 

 

11.4

 

Operation of urban train _ services,
management, maintenance, coordination

and cooperation within metro-city using the

 

140

 

 

national train infrastructures

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.5 Transport security management and
regulation in local level
12.1 Approval of policy, law, and standards of
own responsible areas by village and
Managemen municipal assembly
t of Village 12.2 Approval of periodic plan, annual plan and
Assembly, budget of local level
Municipal 12.3 Determination of revenue rate of other fee
Assembly, charge within own responsible areas
12 District according to responsibility to the local
Assembly, government
local courts, 12.4 Determination of policy and
mediation implementation and _ observation of
and provincial and federal standards relating to
arbitration the use of natural resources of local level
12.5 Matters relating to local community
reconciliation and mediation
13.1 Policy, law, standards, planning,
Local implementation and regulation relating to
13 records local record management
management 13.2 Record management of local level
14 Distribution 14.1 Distribution of local house land ownership,
of house and certificate and inventory management
land according to provincial standards
ownership 14.2 Records according to classification of land
certificates
14.3 Plotting and 110 repository/inventory
(map, shresta) construction and protection
of local lands
14.4 Land acquisition, determination ४

 

 

 

 

compensation 110 coordination § in

distribution and facilitation for

 

141

 

 

governmental purpose

 

14.5

Matters relating to land dispute solution

 

14.6

Inventory relating to management of world
heritage listed and  archaeologically
important and wetland areas, land of coastal

areas

 

 

15

 

Agriculture
and animal
husbandry,
agro-
products
management
animal
health,

cooperatives

15.1

Agriculture and animal husbandry, agro-

product management and animal health

 

15.1.1

Local policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
agriculture and animal husbandry, agro-

product management and animal health

 

15.1.2

Matters relating to agriculture and livestock
market information, market and market day
(HaatBajar), infrastructure construction,
construction of small irrigation, trainings,
technology expansion, technical support,
supply of agriculture materials and farmer
capacity, implementation and regulation of

development programs

 

15.1.3

Control of agriculture and livestock related

natural hazard and epidemic disease

 

15.1.4

Management of livestock medical services

 

15.1.5

Matters relating to agriculture environment
protection, bio-diversity protection and

promotion

 

15.1.6

Promotion, development and marketing of

high value agriculture related materials

 

15.1.7

Development and management of animal

breeding improvement system

 

 

 

15.1.8

 

Management of local pasture and barren

land

 

142

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15.1.9 Quality regulation and animal food/stuff
15.1.10 | Data management and information system
in local level
15.1.11 | Management and regulation of slaughter
house and cold storage
15.1.12 | Insurance and loan facilitation relating to
agriculture and livestock
15.1.13 | Construction and improvement of small
irrigation
Managemen 16.1 Program implementation relating to social
t of senior security in local level according to standard
citizens, determination by federal and state
persons with
16
disabilities
and the
incapacitate
d
17.1 Statistic collection, processing and
Collection
information system of employed and
of _ statistics
17 unemployed
of the
17.2 Information management of foreign labors
unemployed
18 Managemen 18.1 Local policy, law, standards, planning,
t, operation implementation and regulation relating to
and control agriculture extension
of 18.2 Projection, management and mobilization
agricultural of agriculture extension and manpower in
extension local level
18.3 Capacity building, technical service,
support, skill development and
empowerment of farmers
18.4 Supply, use and regulation of seeds,

 

 

 

 

breeding, fertilizer and chemical and

medicines

 

143

 

 

Coordination, management and regulation
of farmer groups, cooperatives and local

organizations

 

Technology protection and handover

relating to agriculture in local level

 

Information publicity relating to agriculture

 

Development and management of resource

centers of local level

 

 

19

 

Water
supply,
small
hydropower
projects,
alternative

energy

19.1

Water supply

 

19.1.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

local water supply

 

19.1.2

Matters relating to determination of water
supply fee and water supply service

Management

 

19.2

Small hydro power projects

 

19.2.1

Local level policy, law, standards, plan
formulation, implementation and regulation

relating to small hydro power projects

 

19.2.2

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
local water supply, small hydro power

projects, alternative energy

 

19.2.3

Local electricity distribution system and
management, operation and regulation of

services

 

19.2.4

Water supply fee determination and

management of water supply services

 

 

 

19.2.5

 

Operation, maintenance, determination of
service charge and collection management

of local small surface and underground

 

144

 

 

irrigation system

 

19.2.6

Matter relating to local embankment/dam,
river and landslide control and_ river

management and regulation

 

19.3

Alternative energy

 

19.3.1

Policy, law, standards, plan formulation,
implementation and regulation relating to

alternative energy in local level

 

19.3.2

Technological development and handover,
capacity building and promotion relating to

alternative energy in local level

 

 

20

 

Disaster

management

20.1

Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

disaster management

 

20.2

Disaster preparedness and response plan in

local level

 

20.3

Disaster preparedness, search and rescue,
pre-storage and relief materials, distribution

and coordination in local level

 

20.4

Matters relating to mapping of disaster risk
areas, identification of settlements and

relocation

 

20.5

Support, coordination and cooperation with
federal state and local community
organization and private sector in disaster

Management

 

20.6

Matters relating to establishment and
mobilization of disaster management fund

an d mobilization of resources and means

 

20.7

Project formulation, implementation and
regulation of local level disaster risk

reduction

 

 

 

20.8

 

Post disaster rehabilitation and

reconstruction of local level

 

145

 

 

 

20.9

Statistic management and study research

relating to disaster of local level

 

20.10

Matters relating to local energy operation

system

 

 

21

 

Protection of
watersheds,
wildlife,
mines and

minerals

21.1

Watershed and wildlife

 

21.1.1

Local policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

watershed and wildlife

 

21.1.2

Prevention of natural hazard and

preparedness

 

21.1.3

Matters relating to community soil
conservation and income _ generation

program thereto

 

21.1.4

Protection of water sources

 

21.1.5

Matter relating to land preservation and
watershed management related community

adaptation

 

21.2

Protection of mines and minerals

 

21.2.1

Policy, law, standards and _ regulation

relating to protection of mines and minerals

 

21.2.2

Survey, invention and excavation relating to
stone, gravel, sand, salt, soil, fireclay and

slate including mine related materials

 

21.2.3

Registration, permission, renewal, dismissal
and management relating to protection,
development, excavation and utilization of
stone, gravel, sand, salt, soil, fireclay and

slate including other mine related materials

 

 

 

21.2.4

 

Information and data collection
documentation and management relating to

local mine and minerals

 

146

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

22.1 Local level policy, law, standards, planning,
Protection implementation and regulation relating to
and protection and development of language,
development culture and fine arts
22 of 22.2 Protection, maintenance, promotion and
languages, development of archaeology, ancient
cultures and monuments and museums
fine arts 22.3 Operation and management of traditional,
religious, procession and festivals
Unbundling/Detailing of the Concurrent Powers provisioned in Schedule-9 of the
Constitution
Cooperative 1.1 Cooperative included in Schedule 8(2)
1 s
Education, 2.1 Education included in Schedule 8(8)
health and
2 newspapers
2.2 Matters relating to construction of structural
infrastructures of sports in local level,
operation and development
2.3 Regulation and coordination of sport
administration and organizations
2.4 Sport development and promotion
2.5 Matters relating to organizing national and
provincial sport competition and
participation
2.6 Provincial infrastructure development
relating to sport
2.7 Publication permission, record and
regulation of newspapers of local level
3 Included in Schedule 8(8)
3 Health

 

147

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 4 Included in Schedule 8(15) and 8(18)
Agriculture
5.1 Matters relating to electricity distribution
system and service management
5.2 Matters relating to drinking water fee
. determination and service management
Services
5.3 Operation and maintenance determination
such 95
and collection management of service fee
electricity
and local small surface and underground
, water
irrigation system
supply, - चा
. . 5.4 Regulation and monitoring of local
irrigation . .
embankment/dam, river control and river
management
5.5 Matters relating to local landslides control,
management, regulation and monitoring
6.1 Policy, law, standard, plan formulation and
. implementation and regulation relating to
Service fee,
local service fee, charge, penalty
charge,
6.2 Collection, coordination and regulation of
penalty and
royalty like natural resources and service
royalty from
fee charges authorized according to federal
natural
law, state law
resources,
6.3 Matters relating to royalty through
tourism fee
॥ operation and management of community
(included
forest
from 9(14)) -
6.4 Royalty from water turbine, Channel (kulo),
drain (Paini) operation
Forests, 7.1 Forest, wildlife and birds
wildlife,

birds, water
uses,

environment
, ecology

and

 

 

 

 

148

 

 

diversity

 

 

 

Protection, promotion, utilization and
regulation of community, rural and urban,
religious and lease hold forest (Kabuliyati
ban) in local level and management of

forest user groups

 

Management of community, religious and

Kabuliyati forest of buffer zone

 

Plantation management in river bank, river
elevation, canal bank and road side in local

level

 

Promotion and regulation of private and

commercial forest

 

Plantation, maintenance, use and
management in public open land and barren

land

 

Survey, production, collection, promotion,
processing and market management relating
to herbals and other non-timber forest

products in local level

 

Establishment, management and promotion

of breeding seeds orchards

 

Matters relating to establishment of nursery,
plant production, distribution, plantation

and promotion

 

Protection, professional nurturing, use and

monitoring of wildlife and birds

 

7.1.10

Matters relating to human and wildlife

conflict management

 

7.1.11

Establishment and operation of local zoo

 

7.1.12

Matters relating to local wildlife, tourism

and income generation

 

 

 

7.1.13

 

Management of (bone, horn, and other

residual parts of dead animal) akhetopahar

 

149

 

 

in local level

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7.1.14 Recording and study research of forest
wildlife and birds in local level
7.2 Environment ecology and bio-diversity
7.2.1 Protection and promotion of inhabitant
species
7.2.2 Control of violent species
7.2.3 Risk reduction of local level
7.2.5 Greenery promotion in local level
7.2.6 Sectoral project formulation,
implementation and monitoring relating to
local small scale water utilization
Mines and P| Included in Schedule 8(21)
| minerals
Disaster P| Included in Schedule 8(20)
0 | management
Social 10.1 Social Security
10 security and
poverty
alleviation
10.1.1 Local policy, law, standards and regulation
relating to social security
10.1.2 Local plan, program, resource utilization
and management relating to identified and
targeted groups
10.1.3 Relation, coordination and cooperation with
national, provincial and local level relating
to social security
10.1.4 Local statistic and information management

 

 

 

 

relating to social security

 

150

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.2 Poverty alleviation
10.2.1 Local policy, law, standard, planning,
implementation, regulation and _ study
research relating to poverty alleviation
10.2.2 Local survey, information management and
regulation relating to identification of poor
household
10.2.3 Planning and management of local social
security
10.2.4 Relation, coordination and cooperation with
national, provincial and local institutions
11.1 Vital registration (births, deaths,
marriages, migration, divorce, adoption
of son/daughter) according to the federal
Personal law and standards
events, 11.1.1 Record management and reporting of
births, personal events following/adopting modern
n deaths, technology
marriages 11.2 Data/Statistic
and statistics
11.2.1 Policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to
local statistics
Archaeology 12.1 Matters relating to archaeology, ancient
; ancient monuments, protection of museums,
12 monuments promotion and reconstruction in local level
and
museums
13.1 Landless squatters identification and record
Landless management according to the federal and
13 squatters state law
management 13.2 Livelihood and settlement/housing

 

 

 

 

management relating to landless squatters in

local level

 

151

 

 

 

 

 

 

Royalty 14 Included in Schedule 9(6)
14 from natural
resources
15.1 Local policy, law, standards, planning ,
implementation and regulation relating to
transportation
15.2 Determination of route, permission,
renewal, quality of services, determination
Motor
of fare rate of local transportation
15 vehicle पप -
15.3 Permission, management and regulation of
permits
taxi services
15.4 Promotion of environment friendly

 

 

 

 

adaptation of climate change, disaster risk
sensitivity, disability and gender friendly

transportation system in local level

 

 

Unbundling/Detailing of Function Provisioned in the Articles Related to Fundamental Rights,

Directive Principles of State, Policies of State and Other Articles of the Constitution

 

Culture sector

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Culture
1. sector 1.1 Operation and management of carious
processions and
Managemen 2 Management of religious and cultural
t of religious heritage
2 and cultural 2.1 Management of religious and cultural
heritage heritage of locally importance
3 Right to housing
Right to
3 housing 3.1 Plan formulation and implementation (local
level) of basic housing
Matters Matters relating to women
4 relating ०
the women 4.1 Policy, planning, implementation,

 

rights

 

 

 

coordination and regulation relating to

 

152

 

 

women rights

 

4.2

Economical, social, political empowerment
and capacity development of women in

local level

 

4.3

Preventive, promotional, protective
measures and rehabilitation for gender

violence alleviation

 

44

Functions relating to gender responsive

budget and audit

 

 

 

 

Women. and

child sector

Child sector

 

5.1

Local policy, law, standards, planning,
implementation and regulation relating to

protection of child rights

 

5.2

Protection of child rights in local level

 

5.3

Matters relating to child friendly
governance arrangement in local level,
child clubs, local child protection

committees and child network

 

5.4

Relation, coordination and cooperation with
federal state and organization relating to

protection of child rights

 

5.5

Child family support in local level

 

5.6

Implementation of alternative nursing/care

system in local level

 

5.7

Child justice in local level

 

5.8

Management of child rehabilitation centers,
baby nursing centers, and child

development centers in local level

 

 

 

5.9

 

Management of street children in local level

 

153

 

 

5.10

Violence control of child in local level

 

5.11

Matters relating to establishment of child
reform and rehabilitation centre, operation,

permit and regulation

 

5.12

Establishment and management of

emergency child recue fund

 

Youth

Sector

Youth Sector

 

6.1

Youth awareness, empowerment and

mobilization in local level

 

6.2

Youth skill, entrepreneurship and leadership

development in local level

 

Policies

of

the state

(Policies

related

to

development

)

Policies of the state (Policies related to

development)

 

7.1

Program formulation and implementation to
enhance the local participation in
development and construction process in

local level

 

7.2

Investment in scientific study, research, and

technology development in local level

 

7.3

Formulation and implementation of
information technology
development/expansion programs according

to national necessity

 

7.4

Formulation and implementation of
programs relating to simple and easy access

of general people in information technology

 

7.5

Use and_ utilization of information

technology in local level

 

 

 

Policies

of

the state

(Policies
relating

protection,

to

Policies of the state (Policies relating to
protection, promotion and use of natural

resources)

 

 

 

8.1

 

Formulation and implementation of multi-

purpose development of water resource

 

154

 

 

programs according to priority to domestic

investment based on public participation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

8.2 Formulation and implementation of
production and development programs of
renewable energy

8.3 Formulation and implementation of

promotion sustainable and reliable projects and

and use of programs by controlling the water induced

natural hazard and river management

resources) 8.4 Formulation and implementation of
programs relating to pre-information system
for disaster risk reduction

P| Policies of the state (Policies relating to
basic needs of the citizens)

9.1 Coordination (state level) in __ basic
settlement

9.2 Formulation and implementation of
unmanaged settlement programs

9.3 Formulation and implementation of
planning and managed settlement programs.

Policies of Land pulling and land development and
the state management for integrated settlement
(Policies development

relating to 9.4 Coordination (State level) in basic
basic needs transportation

of the 9.5 Investment enhancement in transportation
citizens) sector

P| Simple, easy and equal access of citizens in
transportation facility

9.7 Priority to the environment friendly
technology

Pe | Regulation/control of private transportation

P| Safe, managed, reliable and disable friendly

 

 

 

transportation system

 

155

 

 

 

10

 

Local
budget,
financial
management
and
accounting
Part 19 of
the
Constitution
and Local
Planning
(Local Self
Governance

Act 2055)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10.1 Finance and fiscal sector

10.1.1 Analysis of macro-economic situation of
local level and formulation, implementation
and regulation of local economic policy

10.1.2 Allocation of financial resources and
optimum use and mobilization of financial
resources for equity and local development

10.1.3 Policy, law formulation, implementation
and regulation relatingto local revenue

10.1.4 Policy formulation, implementation and
regulation relating to local public
expenditure

10.1.5 Management and regulation of local loan
and grant

10.1.6 Matters relating to local investment
projection and _ financial management
(government, cooperative and private)

10.1.7 Integrated inventory of local government
property

10.1.18 | Inventory management and collection of
dues of local government dues amount

11 Planning

11.1.1 Matters relating to local level development
policy, short term, medium term and long
term plan formulation in local level and
monitoring and evaluation

11.1.2 Matters relating to determination of local
priority sectors/areas

11.1.3 Short term and long term plan formulation
for local human resource development

11.1.4 Implementation, coordination and

 

cooperation of central and_ provincial

development programs implementing in

 

156

 

 

local level

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11.1.5 Study and research

11.1.6 Matters relating to annual development
programs, approval, implementation and
regulation

11.1.7 Strategy formulation and __ poverty
alleviation

11.1.8 Matters relating to determination of base
procedures of monitoring and evaluation,
monitoring and evaluation of sectoral
policies; implementation, monitoring and
outcome review of development plans

12 Local financial procedures and fund

12.1.1 Policy and law formulation, implementation
and regulation relating to financial
procedure matters relating to expenditures
from the local consolidated fund

12.1.2 Matters relating to determination of budget
ceiling, formulation, implementation and
regulation

12.1.3 Matters relating to local account control and
management

12.1.4 Operation of local consolidated fund

12.1.5 Estimation of local revenue and expenditure

12.1.6 Management of source to meet the deficit
according to the federal and state law

12.1.7 Account management of federation and
state government investment and bonus

12.1.8 Matters relating to local expenditure,

 

revenue, deposit operation fund and other

government fund and integrated description

 

157

 

 

of property, internal and final auditing

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. 11 Titles, honors and decorations
Titles,
11 honors and - -
11.1 Recommendation of title, honors and
decorations १
decorations
12 Treaty and Agreement
Treaty and 12.1 Support in implementation of request,
12
Agreement recommendation and agreement in
federation and state level for international
treaty and agreement
13.1 Identification, protection and promotion of
touristic place/areas and heritage in local
level
13 Tourism - -
13.2 Matters relating to local tourism
infrastructure development and
encouragement
Water 14 Availability of pure drinking water for the
14
supply people

 

 

 

 

 

 

Unbundling/Detailing of the functions provisioned in the Work Allocation Rules and other

 

 

 

 

 

 

laws
Public 1 Public holiday, celebration, order for
holiday, presence etc.

1 celebration, 1.1 Holiday management for public holiday,
order for ceremonies, procession, order for presence
presence etc. etc.

2 Matters relating to culture
2.1 Functions relating to protection and
2 promotion of archaeological religiously
important heritages in local level
2.2 Functions relating to cultural development

 

 

 

 

and promotion in local level

 

158

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 Matters relating to social welfare and
organizations/institutions
3.1 Registration and regulation of organizations
relating to social welfare in local level
3.2 Management of Guthi, Fund and Trusts
3.3 Functions relating to senior citizens, people
with disabilities, helpless child and single
women
Peace and _ Peace and reconstruction sector
reconstructi
on sector
4.1 Functions relating to local peace committee
5.1 Registration, renewal, dismissal and
regulation development and promotion of
Matters micro, cottage and small industries
relating ० 5.2 Development and promotion of micro,
industry cottage and small industries
5.3 Promotion of entrepreneurship

 

 

 

 

159

 

Part-5
Conclusion and suggestions

List of altogether/total/aggregate functional assignment has been prepared of the
federation, the state, and the local level on the basis of functional analysis and
responsibility assignment report presented by all group wise working teams as their own
sectors.

The functional assignment of federation has been identified by unbundling/detailing
from the exclusive powers of federation list received function detailing provisioned in
schedule-5 in integrated list of functional responsibility of the federation and by
unbundling/detailing concurrent powers list to the federation matters in schedule 7 and 9.
In this same way, the function of federation has been identified by detailing /unbundling
the articles of fundamental rights and directive principles of constitution and matters of
government and other organs of state responsibilities in other articles and functions
performed by government under present acts, laws, work division regulations.

In the same way, the functional assignment of the state has been identified by detailing
/anbundling from the exclusive powers of the state list received function detailing
provisioned in schedule -6 in integrated list of functional responsibility of federation and
by detailing concurrent powers list to the state matters in schedule 7 and 9. In this same
way, the function of the state has been identified by breaking down the articles of

fundamental rights and directive principles of constitution and matters of government

160

and other organs of state responsibilities in other articles and functions performed by

government under present acts, laws, and work division regulations.

The functional assignment of the local level has been identified by detailing /unbundling
from the exclusive powers of the local level list received function detailing provisioned
in schedule -8 in integrated list of functional responsibility of local level and by detailing
concurrent powers list to the local level matters in schedule-9. In this same way, the
function of the local level has been identified by breaking the articles of fundamental
rights and directive principles of constitution and matters of government and other
organs of state responsibilities in other articles and functions performed by government
under present acts, laws, and work division regulations. Presently, some functions are
remaining under the central government however these functions have been performed
by local bodies. However, those function are under the responsibility/ care of federation
and state government, it is better to devolve/ delegate the function to performed through
local level on cost effective manner and adopting collaborative way with saving time
and cost of service taker citizens.

Propose report has remained as a milestone of constitution implementation. On the basic
of this report, this report shell be support for additional study and analysis on the
matters/subjects of formulation of organizational structures in each level, adjustment and
management of manpower, public fiscal management, formulation and development of
acts, regulations and laws including fiscal federalism and it will support to fulfill the goal

of economic and social transformation through easy implementation of constitution.

161

Annex: 1
List of Exclusive and Power of the Federation, the State and the Local level

mentioned in the Schedule — 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the Constitution of Nepal

1.1 List of Federal Power according to Schedule- 5

1. Relating to defense and military
(a) Protection of national unity and territorial integrity
(b) Relating to national security

2. War and defense

3. Arms and ammunitions factories and production thereof

4. Central Police, Armed Police Force, national intelligence and investigation,
peace, security

5. Central planning, central bank, finance policies, monetary and banking,
monetary policies, foreign grants, aid and loans

6. Foreign and diplomatic affairs, international relations and United Nations related
matters

7. International treaties or agreements, extradition, mutual legal assistance and
international borders, international boundary rivers

8. Telecommunications, allocation of radio frequency, radio, television and postal

matters

162

10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.

16.

17.

18.
19.
20.
21.

22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.

28.
29.

30.
31.
32.
33.
34.

Customs, excise-duty, value-added tax, corporate income tax, individual income
tax, remuneration tax, passport fee, visa fee, tourism fee, service charge and fee,
penalty

Federal civil service, judicial service and other government services
Policies relating to conservation and multiple uses of water resources
Inland and inter-State electricity transmission lines
Central statistics (national and international standards and quality)
Central level large electricity, irrigation and other projects

Central universities, central level academies, universities standards and
regulation, central libraries
Health policies, health services, health standards, quality and monitoring,
national or specialized service providing hospitals, traditional treatment services
and communicable disease control
Federal Parliament, Federal Executive, Local Level related affairs, special
structure
International trade, exchange, port, quarantine

Civil aviation, international airports

National transportation policies, management of railways and national highways
Laws relating to the Supreme Court, High Courts, District Courts and
administration of justice
Citizenship, passport, visa, immigration
Atomic energy, air space and astronomy
Intellectual property (including patents, designs, trademarks and copyrights)
Measurement
Mines excavation
National and international environment management, national parks, wildlife
reserves and wetlands, national forest policies, carbon services

Insurance policies, securities, cooperatives regulation

Land use policies, human settlement development policies, tourism policies,
environment adaptation
Criminal and civil laws making
Security printing
Social security and poverty alleviation
Constitutional Bodies, commissions of national importance

Sites of archaeological importance and ancient monuments

163

1.2

35. Any matter not enumerated in the Lists of Federal Powers, State Powers and

Local Level Powers or in the Concurrent List and any matter not specified in this

Constitution and in the Federal laws

List of State Power according to Schedule-6

1.
2.

po 9 ता ey

21.

State police administration and peace and order
Operation of banks and financial institutions in accordance with the policies of
Nepal Rastra Bank, cooperative institutions, foreign grants and assistance with
the consent of the Centre
Operation of Radio, F.M., television
House and land registration fee, motor vehicle tax, entertainment tax,
advertisement tax, tourism, agro-income tax, service charge, fee, penalty
State civil service and other government services
State statistics
State level electricity, irrigation and water supply services, navigation
State universities, higher education, libraries, museums

Health services

. Matters relating to the State Assembly, State Council of Ministers
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.

Intra-State trade
State highways
State bureau of investigation
Physical management and other necessary matters of State governmental offices
State Public Service Commission
Management of lands, land records
Exploration and management of mines
Protection and use of languages, scripts, cultures, fine arts and religions
Use of forests and waters and management of environment within the State
Agriculture and livestock development, factories, industrialization, trade,
business, transportation

Management of trusts (Guthi)

1.3 List of Concurrent Powers of Federation and State according to Schedule-7

1.

2.

Civil and criminal procedure, evidence and oaths (legal recognition, public acts
and records, and judicial proceedings)
Supply, distribution, price control, quality and monitoring of essential goods and

services

164

13.
14.

15

18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.

24.
25.

Preventive detention for reasons connected with the security of the country,
prison and detention management, and maintenance of peace and order

Transfer of accused persons, detainees and prisoners from one State to another
State

Laws relating to family affairs (marriage, transfer of property, divorce, persons
on the verge of extinction, orphan, adoption, succession and joint family)
Acquisition, requisitioning of property and creation of right in property
Contracts, cooperatives, partnership and agency related matters

Matters relating to bankruptcy and insolvency

Drugs and pesticides

. Planning, family planning and population management
. Social security and employment, trade unions, settlement of industrial

. Legal profession, auditing, engineering, medicines, Ayurvedic medicines,

veterinary, Amchi and other professions
13. State boundary river, waterways, environment protection, biological diversity

Matters related to means of communication

. Industries and mines and physical infrastructures
16.
17.

Casino, lottery

Early preparedness for, rescue, relief and rehabilitation from, natural and man-
made calamities

Tourism, water supply and sanitation

Motion pictures, cinema halls and sports

Insurance business operation and management

Poverty alleviation and industrialization

Scientific research, science and technology and human resources development
Utilization of forests, mountains, forest conservation areas and waters stretching
in inter-State form

Land policies and laws relating thereto

Employment and unemployment aid

1.4 List of Local Level Power according to Schedule-8

1.
2.
3.

Town police
Cooperative institutions

Operation of F.M.

165

po 9 ता ey

13.
14.
15.

16.
17.
18.
19.

20

Local taxes (wealth tax, house rent tax, land and building registration fee, motor
vehicle tax), service charge, fee, tourism fee, advertisement tax, business tax,
land tax (land revenue), penalty, entertainment tax, land revenue collection
Management of the Local services

Collection of local statistics and records

Local level development plans and projects

Basic and secondary education

Basic health and sanitation

. Local market management, environment protection and bio-diversity
11.
12.

Local roads, rural roads, agro-roads, irrigation

Management of Village Assembly, Municipal Assembly, District Assembly, local
courts, mediation and arbitration

Local records management

Distribution of house and land ownership certificates

Agriculture and animal husbandry, agro-products management, animal health,
cooperatives

Management of senior citizens, persons with disabilities and the incapacitated
Collection of statistics of the unemployed

Management, operation and control of agricultural extension

Water supply, small hydropower projects, alternative energy

. Disaster management
21.
22.

Protection of watersheds, wildlife, mines and minerals

Protection and development of languages, cultures and fine arts

1.5 List of Concurrent Powers of Federation, State, and Local Level according to

1
2
3
4
5.
6
7
8
9

Schedule -9
Cooperatives
Education, health and newspapers
Health
Agriculture
Services such as electricity, water supply, irrigation
Service fee, charge, penalty and royalty from natural resources, tourism fee
Forests, wildlife, birds, water uses, environment, ecology and bio-diversity
Mines and minerals

Disaster management

10. Social security and poverty alleviation

166

11. Personal events, births, deaths, marriages and statistics
12. Archaeology, ancient monuments and museums

13. Landless squatters management

14. Royalty from natural resources

15. Motor vehicle permits

Annex-2
Formation of Committees
a) High Level Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring
Steering Committee:
1. Right Honorable Prime Minister Chairperson
2. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister Member

3. Honorable Minister, Federal Affairs Member
and Local Development

4. Honorable Minister, Defense Member

5. Honorable Minister, Finance Member

6. Honorable Minister, Home Member

7. Honorable Minister, Law, Justice Member

and Parliamentary Affairs
8. Honorable Minister, General Member

Administration

 

9. Vice chairperson , National Member

Planning Commission

167

10. Chief Secretary, Nepal Government

Member Secretary

b) Federalism Implementation and Administration Restructuring Coordination

N

aon kW

Committee:
Chief Secretary, Nepal Government Coordinator
Secretary, Federal Affairs and Local Member
Development
Secretary, Defense Member
Secretary, Finance Member
Secretary, Home Member
Secretary, Law, Justice and Member
Parliamentary Affairs
Secretary, General Administration Member

Secretary, Office of Prime Minister

and Council of Ministers

Member Secretary

Annex: 3

Formation of Working Groups

 

S.no.

Group Sector

Working groups

 

 

 

Social Education,

children

women,
and social
welfare, population
and environment,

forest and land

protection, peace and

reconstruction,
culture, youth and
sports

 

Coordinator — Mr. Rameshwor Dangal,

Joint Secretary, Office of Prime
Minister and Council of Ministers (till
the date of 2073 Kartik 20" ) after that
Joint Secretary- Mr. Jitendra Basnet,
Office of Prime Minister and Council of
Ministers
Member- Mr. Hari Lamsal, Joint
Secretary, Education Ministry

Member- Mr. Mahendra Shrestha, Joint
Secretary, Health Ministry

Member- Mr. Rajendra Kafle, Joint

Secretary,

 

Member- Mr. Ram Prasad Lamsal, Joint

 

168

 

 

Secretary, Ministry of Population and
Environment

Expert- = Mr. Balgovinda _ Bista
Member- Secretary Mr. Dirga Raj
Livestock

Upadhaya, Ministry of

Development

 

 

 

Finance

 

Finance, commerce,
supply, industry,
agriculture, livestock,
labor and
employment,
National Planning
Commission,

cooperative and
poverty alleviation,
tourism and _ civil

aviation

 

Coordinator- Mr. Buddhi Bahadur
Khadka, Joint Secretary, Office of
Prime Minister and Council of Ministers
Member- Dr. Tirtha Raj Dhakal, Joint
Secretary, National Planning
Commission

Member- Mr. Laxman Aryal, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Finance

Member- Mr. Ramsharan Pudasaini,
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Finance
Member- Mr. Ananda Raj Dhakal, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Finance

Member- Mr. Mukund Poudel, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Finance

Member- Mr. Dinesh Ghimire, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Industry
Member- Mr. Kashi Raj Dahal, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Agricultural
Development

Member- Dr. HariBabu Tiwari, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Agricultural
Development

Member- Mr. Ghanshyam Upadhaya,
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Tourism and
Civil Aviation

Member- Mr. Nagendra Jha, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Land Reform and
Managemnet

Member- Mr. Anjan Kumar Mishra,

 

169

 

 

Under Secretary, Office of Prime
Minister and Council of Ministers
Expert- Mr. Dipendra Bikram Thapa
Member Secretary- Mr. Anjan Kumar
Mishra, Under Secretary, Office of

Prime Minister and Council of Ministers

 

Infrastructures

Water resources,
physical
infrastructures and
transportation, urban
development,
drinking water and
sanitation,
communication and

media, science and

technology

Coordinator- Mr. Uttar Kumar Khatri,

Joint Secretary, Office of Prime
Minister and Council of Ministers (till
the date of 2073 Kartik 20")

After thatJoint Secretary , Mr.
Rameshwor Dangal, Office of Prime
Minister and Council of Ministers
Member- Mr. Madhav Belbase, Joint

Secretary, Water and Energy
Commission
Member- Mr.

DevendraKarki, Joint

Secretary, Ministry of Physical
Infrastructure and Transportation

Member- Mr. Khom Raj Koirala, Joint
Secretary, National Reconstruction
Authority
Member- Mr. _ Rabi

Shah, Joint

Secretary, Ministry of Physical
Infrastructure and Transportation
Member- Mr. Suresh Adhikari, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Information and
Communication

Expert- Dr. Surya Raj Acharya

Member Secretary- Mr. Kabindra Nepal,
Under Office

Secretary, of Prime

Minister and Council of Ministers

 

 

 

Security and
Governance

Arrangement

 

Matters relating to

Office of Prime

Minister and Council

 

Coordinator- Mr. BinodKunwar, Joint
Secretary, Office of Prime Minister and

Council of Ministers (till the date of

 

170

 

 

of Ministers, Home,

Defense, Foreign
Affairs, General
Administration,

Federal Affairs and
Local Development,

Land Management

2073 Kartik 20")After that
Mr. Damodar Regmi, Joint Secretary ,

Office of Prime Minister and Council of

Ministers

Member- Mrs. Nita Pokhrel, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of General
Administration

Member- Mr. BalramRijal, Joint
Secretary, Ministry of Physical

Infrastructure and Transportation

Member- Mr. Krishna BahadurRaut,
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home
Affairs

Member- Mr. GopikKhanal, Joint

Secretary, Ministry of Federal Affairs
and Local Development

Member- Mr. IshworajPaudel and Mr.
PradeepKoirala, Joint Secretary,
Ministry of General Administration
Member- Mr. Ramesh Kumar K.C, Joint
Secretary, National Reconstruction
Authority

Member- Mr. Bhupendra Thapa, Under
Secretary, Office of Prime Minister and
Council of Ministers

Expert- Mr. Balkrishna Prasai and Mr.
Ganga Dutta Awasthi

Member Secretary- Mr. BishnuHari
Upadhaya, Under Secretary, Office of
Prime Minister and Council of Ministers
Mr. Bhupendra Thapa, , Under
Secretary, Office of Prime Minister and

Council of Ministers

 

 

 

Constitutional

body,

 

Constitutional bodies,

Parliament, Law,

 

Coordinator- Mr. Ramesh Dhakal, Joint

Secretary, Office of Prime Minister and

 

171

 

 

Parliament,
Law and

others

Justice

and

Parliamentary Affairs

and others

Council of Ministers

Member- Mr. Kiran Raj Sharma, Joint
Secretary , Public Service Commission
Member- Mr. Bir Bahadur Rai, Joint
Secretary, Election Commission
Member- Mr. Begendra Sharma Paudel,
Joint Secretary, Commission of the
Abuse of Authority and investigation
Member- Mr. Fanindra Raj Gautam,
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Law, Justice
and Parliamentary Affairs

Member- Mr. Babu Ram Gautam, Joint
Secretary, Office of the Auditor General
Member- Mr. Bharat Parsad Gautam,
Joint Secretary

Member- Mr. Bipul Neupane, Joint
Register, Supreme Court

Expert- Mr. Buddhi Karki

 

 

 

Coordination
in all working

group

 

Coordination

working group

in all

 

Joint Secretary Mr. Dilli Ram Sharma,
Office of Prime Minister and Council of
Ministers

Joint Secretary Mr. Narayan Prasad
Sharma Duwadi, Office of Prime
Minister and Council of Ministers
Under Secretary, Mr. Prem Lal
Lamichanne, , Office of Prime Minister

and Council of Ministers

 

172

 

Annex - 4

Terms of Reference of working group (TOR)

 

To submit work plan to perform the work by each working group within time frame

according to their TOR

 

To prepared the detailed list of functional assignment perform by each level on the
basis of the list of exclusive and concurrent rights given to the federation, the state

and the local level according to the constitution of Nepal.

 

To collect the data and information relating to study reports, suggestions,
recommendations prepared and published by different agencies related to their own

group about the implementation of federalism and administration restructuring

 

To prepared the complete list (including rights from concurrent right list) of the
federation, the state and the local level to identify the functional assignment in
activities to perform by each level according to the exclusive and concurrent right

list to the federation, the state and local level according to the constitution.

 

To prepared the level wise profile of the federation, the state and the local level
receiving the detail information of existing organizations, manpower, physical and

financial situation relating with each working groups.

 

To prepared the draft of organization structure of all level necessary to fulfill the

prescribed functional assignment to the federation, state and local level.

 

 

 

To project the main power of all service and group necessary to the government

agencies of the federation state local level to perform the prescribed functional

 

173

 

 

assignment to the federation, state and local level.

 

To identified the number of enough and inadequate human resource to manage the

organization structure and human resource of the federation, state and local level.

 

To present action plan including immediate, short term and the long term solutions
and procedures regarding distribution and the adjustment of enough human
resource in the inadequate organizations structures (federation, state and the local

level).

 

To support, coordinate and facilitate with stake holder agencies for necessary
policies, formulation, revision and development of laws regarding the management

of future government services according to the articles 285 and 302 of constitution.

 

To prepare the draft about the adjustment of existing public corporations
established to perform the prescribed functional assignment to the federation, the
state and the local level, and where and which is the appropriate level (the

federation, state and the local level) to adjustment.

 

 

 

To perform the fixed/appointed other functions relating to implementation of

federalism and state restructure.

 

174

 

